ETH Zurich switches to emergency operations
On 16 March, the Swiss Federal Council declared a national state of emergency. The entire population is being urgently called upon to minimise human contact for their own protection and the protection of others. ETH Zurich is doing everything in its power to help fight this pandemic and is therefore adapting its measures. Starting immediately and currently planned to continue until the end of May, all research and administrative activities must be carried out with as little human contact as possible. This is in addition to the suspension of classroom teaching that is already in place.

This means that until further notice, all members of ETH must work from home unless their physical presence at ETH is absolutely necessary.  

Exceptions to this general requirement to work from home are:
Teaching staff who are recording or streaming lectures and the relevant support staff
Employees of ETH IT Services and Educational Development and Technology (LET) who support IT systems with high and highest availability requirements
Staff members of research institutes which must be kept in operation (approval by the Vice President for Research)
Staff members who are coming to pick up the documents and IT equipment they need to work from home
People in charge of research systems that cannot be shut down (approval by the Vice President for Research)
People in charge of shutting down experiments and the corresponding documentation (approval by the Vice President for Research)
Operating and security staff with a mandatory presence on site
Employees of ETH partner companies that will remain open
Other technical and administrative staff as defined by the organisational units


Due to the spread of the coronavirus, the ETH Zurich Executive Board decided to suspend classroom teaching starting Monday, 16 March until the end of Spring Semester 2020. This includes all exercises, practicals, and field trips. Classroom teaching is being replaced by an online offering that is continually expanding.

Remote teaching options
Lecture recordings
The goal is to maintain teaching operations sufficient for as many students as possible to finish the semester successfully without having to repeat it.

The following measures directly impact students at ETH Zurich:

Students are asked not to come to ETH anymore as of Monday, 16 March, but rather to use the distance learning options instead.
ETH is trying to record as many lectures as possible and make them available online. We are also looking into online alternatives for exercises and other teaching formats where physical attendance is not necessary. Lecturers will be giving students information as soon as possible on how they can access these digital resources.
For courses that cannot be replaced with online alternatives (e.g. laboratory courses), we are looking for solutions that ensure students can continue and complete their courses of study. They will soon receive further information from their lecturers or degree programmes.
Special arrangements are being made for performance assessments in Spring Semester 2020 which take this exceptional situation into consideration. To minimise the disruption to degree programmes, any end-​of-semester examinations or session examinations that students do not pass in Spring Semester 2020 will be annulled. Students are therefore advised to sit all their exams, despite the difficult circumstances.
Rector's directive on teaching measures due to the coronavirus
Students entering Switzerland from high-​risk countries and areas
Students and doctoral students (without an employment contract) travelling from Italy are not permitted to enter Switzerland at this time: More information from the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH)

Any returning doctoral students who live in shared accommodation must be provided with separate accommodation. The profressorship will cover the cost of this.


Will teaching continue?Close
Classroom teaching is suspended as of Monday, 16 March 2020 and all teaching will be delivered online instead. Many teaching sessions will be immediately available in an online format (remote teaching).  

Can I still enter ETH premises?Close
No. Classroom teaching has been suspended with effect from 16 March 2020 and all teaching will be delivered online. As a result of these measures, all students (with few exceptions) will be denied access to all ETH buildings.
After the Swiss Federal Council declared a state of emergency, even students who are working on research projects or papers at ETH may no longer enter ETH Zurich buildings. According to the directive "Coronavirus pandemic: Measures with regard to teaching", projects that require being physically present at ETH will have to be put on hold and resumed at a later time.

Directive of the Rector  

Which students can still enter ETH Zurich premises?Close
No students are allowed to enter ETH premises, except for those living in student housing on Hönggerberg campus. However, these students are also not allowed to enter teaching or researching facilities.

When will I receive information, and from whom, about how teaching will continue?Close
Lecturers for the course unit for which students are registered will inform them about online teaching arrangements. This information will be provided by lecturers no later than Sunday, 22 March 2020.

Where do I get more information about teaching?Close
ETH Zurich provides continuous updates on this website about the measures being taken. This information will be updated continuously.

Will online teaching materials be recorded?Close
ETH Zurich advises lecturers to not only stream their remote teaching, but also to record it and make it available to students with password protection.
Students are required to treat the recordings with due care, to only use them for study purposes and not to share them with anyone else.
 

What is happening with exercises, laboratory courses and field trips?Close
These options, which involves students being physically present, are suspended until lecturers offer alternative formats. Lecturers will keep students informed of these options as they become available.

Will performance assessments (exams) go ahead as planned?Close
Changes in the arrangements and dates for exams will be unavoidable. The basis for the changes to the overall conditions has been prescribed by the Rector and is outlined in the directive "Coronavirus pandemic: Measures with regard to teaching". In the directive the focus was on ensuring that the measures taken are fair and appropriate.
To minimise the disruption to study programmes, the results of any performance assessments that students do not pass in the Spring Semester 2020 will be cancelled. Students are therefore advised to sit all their exams, despite the difficult circumstances.

I am writing my Bachelor’s/Master’s thesis or Semester Project. How do the measures affect me?Close
Experiments, tests and similar activities that require the use of ETH infrastructure can currently not be carried out and will have to be postponed to a later date. Work that does not require the use of ETH infrastructure can be performed from home following discussion with the relevant supervisor(s). The writing portion of Bachelor’s and Master’s theses is to be carried out at home.
Please see the directive of the Rector.

Please see the directive of the Rector

How does a suspension of classroom teaching affect my course of study?Close
To minimise the disruption to study programmes, the results of any end-​of-semester examinations or session examinations that students do not pass in the Spring Semester 2020 will be cancelled. Students are therefore advised to sit all their exams, despite the difficult circumstances. More details can be found in the directive "Coronavirus pandemic: Measures with regard to teaching".
Classroom teaching has been suspended. How does this impact courses with mandatory attendance?
For classes with mandatory attendance, lecturers are required to develop alternative modules that allow for student participation. More details can be found in the directive "Coronavirus pandemic: Measures with regard to teaching".

What can I do to make sure I complete the semester successfully?Close
ETH Zurich encourages students to use digital communication channels to prepare for their lessons and review the content afterwards. This includes official ETH Zurich teaching and learning platforms as well as unofficial channels such as WhatsApp groups. We encourage students to test out new strategies and ways of learning.

Will the semester bill for FS 2020 be reduced or suspended due to the coronavirus consequences?Close
No. Neither the tuition fees nor other fees (ASVZ, VSETH etc.) will be reduced or cancelled.

Teaching will be continued. Instead of classroom teaching, online courses are offered, which are constantly being expanded so that as many students as possible can complete the semester regularly. Professors and scientific, technical and administrative staff make this possible.


Consulting
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Will the Academic Services and Student Services desks remain open?Close
The desks will not be open, but alternative formats will be provided on the webpage of the department in question.

Who do I contact if I need a transcript of records or a confirmation of enrolment?Close
Send an e-​mail either to the Student Administration of your degree programme (check the respective website) or to the Registrar's Office.
If you need another sheet with matriculation confirmations, write also to registrar@ethz.ch.  

Where can I find information about applying for a Master's degree programme?Close
Detailed information about ETH Master programmes

I am an exchange/visiting student at ETH. Who can I talk to about my questions?Close
Please get in touch with the student exchange office.

I have a disability that is making it difficult to follow the online lessons. Who can I contact?Close
If your problems can be addressed by making adjustments to the online lessons, it is best to directly get in touch with the lecturer in charge. For other cases, please contact the Disability Advisory Service.

I have an urgent question that I can’t find an answer to here. Who can I talk to?Close
Please send your questions by email to the relevant office.

I require professional (psychological) help. Who can I get in touch with?Close
ETH Zurich and the University of Zurich run a psychological counselling service for students and doctoral students. In light of the current situation they are only able to offer counselling via telephone or Skype for the time being.


Campus
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Will the restaurants and cafeterias stay open?Close
No. However, the residents of the student residences on the Hönggerberg campus have access to street food and the avec box.

Will the Coop on Hönggerberg campus remain open?Close
The Coop will remain closed until further notice. For further information, please visit the gastronomy website.

How does the situation affect ASVZ sports operations?Close
The ASVZ Sport Centers (including outdoor facilities and counters) are closed since Saturday, 14 March 2020.

What about the services of the ETH Library?Close
The ET library is closed. Up-to-date information on the services provided by the ETH Library during the period of the coronavirus protective measures can be found on the following webpage:

Important information about ETH Library's services

Can we still use printers at ETH?Close
As long as ETH buildings remain off limits to students, ETH print services will not be available to students.
Can I still order books from the ETH Store?Close
The ETH Store has also closed its physical shops but is still taking online orders.

Miscellaneous
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Where do I find more information on the current situation and the latest measures?
The Federal Office of Public Health provides continuous updates on the current situation and the associated measures, restrictions and advice on prevention:
ETH Zurich also provides continuously updated information on this website about the measures being taken.

Why have these measures been taken?Close
The measures ETH is taking to tackle the spread of coronavirus have two main objectives: on the one hand, to prevent the spread of the virus and thus protect ETH members and everyone around them. On the other hand, we are doing our utmost to ensure that students are able to continue their studies this semester. This is the main thrust of the measures we have already taken to date, and will continue to take in future.

I have been called up for Swiss military duty. What impact will this have on my studies?
We are very grateful that you are actively helping to make a difference during this difficult time.
We will provide you with straightforward support for planning your future studies and also offer generous solutions for deadline extensions if necessary and helpful. You can directly get in touch with the head of Student Administration.

Note that we are currently not able to approve any requests for postponement of service, as exemptions are basically not possible.

What rules/precautions apply for students in shared accommodation?
• Wash your hands frequently.
• Cough and sneeze into a tissue or the crook of your arm.
• Dispose of all tissues.
• Keep a 2m distance from others.
• Do not shake hands.
• Do not touch your face with your hands.
• Stay at home if you have a fever, cough or breathing difficulties.
• Wipe down all surfaces.

These precautions are particularly important if occupants of shared accommodation return from a trip to a high-​risk country like China, Iran, Italy, Japan, Singapore and South Korea or move in for the first time.



Directive on research at ETH Zurich in emergency mode
The Vice President for Research (VPR), pursuant to article 10 paragraph 4 of the ETH Zürich
Organisational Ordinance (RSETHZ 201.021), issues the following directive:
19 March 2020
Preamble
Based on the current spread of the coronavirus and the reinforced measures passed by the Swiss Federal
Council, ETH’s Executive Board decided on 16 March 2020 to only permit the physical presence of ETH
members where it is absolutely indispensable. All other employees must work from home starting immediately.
This also means that all experimental research will have to be shut down with immediate effect. Practical
research in laboratories is basically no longer permitted, independently of whether social distancing can be
ensured or not. Exceptions to this rule are explained below and concern in particular the operation and
maintenance of critical infrastructures, the protection of laboratory animals, research on COVID-19, and the
prompt transition from regular operations to emergency mode.
It goes without saying that any research that does not involve experiments as well as all activities that can be
performed electronically (e.g. theoretical work, data analysis, manuscript writing) are to be continued after their
relocation to home offices.
The Executive Board asks all members of ETH Zurich to back their decisions. The board will discuss in due
time which pragmatic solutions ETH can offer to mitigate delays of projects and careers. The board also asks
for your patience until this and other questions (e.g. concerning financial support) can be addressed.
The following regulations apply to research in emergency mode:
Scope with regard to property and personnel: The regulations described below apply to the complete research
infrastructure of ETH Zurich and to all members of ETH Zurich who pursue experimental research, no matter
if they conduct it at the departments, in extradepartmental units, or using technology platforms.
Moreover, the regulations apply to spin-off companies of ETH Zurich which are renting ETH rooms or whose
employees use ETH laboratory infrastructure or draw benefits from technology platforms, as well as more
generally to all employees of partner institutions in the case of shared institutes and units.
1. Experimental research at ETH Zurich is to be shut down in an orderly manner. All work in laboratories
that is not classified as a critical service may only be conducted if it serves to bring an experiment to
a halt as swiftly as possible.
2. Indispensable, critical infrastructures will continue to be in service and maintained. This includes all
measures that are strictly necessary for ensuring their operations and that cannot be postponed. In
particular, ETH’s central IT infrastructure and the scientific computing infrastructure (CSCS, Scientific
Compute Clusters) are guaranteed to be able to continue their operations. 
Page 2 of 3
3. Units responsible for tasks of national importance will continue carrying out their tasks within the scope
of their federal duties (e.g. SED’s earthquake monitoring services).
4. Work with laboratory animals is restricted to their husbandry and protection.
5. An emergency plan for maintaining laboratory infrastructure must be submitted and approved
separately by each research group. The professors submit these plans to the Heads of their
Department, who make a preselection that they pass on to the VPR (research@sl.ethz.ch, subject line
“Labore im Notbetrieb”). Forms for the contingency plans are included as Appendix A.
Exceptions concerning experimental research and spin-offs:
• Requests for exceptions concerning experimental research are to be submitted to the responsible
Head of Department. The departments will be responsible for the preselection. Requests that are
supported by the department can be submitted immediately but at the latest by 23 March 2020 to the
Vice President of Research at research@sl.ethz.ch. The subject line should be “Forschung Notbetrieb”. All requests will be examined and approved by a special committee called “Forschung Notbetrieb” that has been appointed by the VPR. Forms for the submission are attached as Appendix B.
Since exemptions will be only be granted in exceptional cases and after careful examination,
immediate arrangements must be made to reduce all experimental research to the absolute minimum.
• Research on Covid-19 is highly welcome. However, it must be demonstrated that it can be directly
applied and implemented in the near future. It also must be approved by the new special committee
called “COVID-19-Forschung”. Proposals may be submitted at any time to the Vice President of
Research at research@sl.ethz.ch and must contain information on the researchers involved and
required infrastructure as well as a brief description of the research plan and the expected outcomes
(max. 3 pages). The subject line should be “Covid-19-Forschung”. The submission is attached as
Appendix C.
• Technology platforms that are directly subordinate to the Vice President of Research as well as units
that do not belong to a department should submit their proposals directly to research@sl.ethz.ch.
• Departmental platforms should submit to their department. The proposals must include the type of
work performed and a justification, as well as the planning of the employees and their presence times
(max. 2 pages).
• We are in the process of clarifying legal requirements with regard to contractually accorded services
(including research projects) to third parties in the case of acts of nature. Corresponding regulations
will be communicated shortly.
• The regulations described above also apply to spin-offs that work on the premises of ETH Zurich (incl.
Technopark Einsteintrakt). Accordingly, minimal operations and experiments can only be permitted in
exceptional cases. Requests with the subject line “Spin-off im Notbetrieb” are to be submitted to
research@sl.ethz.ch, cc’ing Dr Marjan Kraak (marjan.kraak@sl.ethz.ch). The necessary form is
Appendix D.
The Heads of Department and the directors of any involved technology platforms will be informed by the Vice
President of Research about approvals for exemption requests.
The regulations above apply both to ETH Zurich’s departments and to its technology platforms. All ETH
members as well as persons affiliated with other institutions who work on the premises of ETH Zurich are
subject to these regulations. Each unit is responsible for the implementation of these measures.
Regulations for units that are operated in collaboration with other institutions will be communicated soon. The
same applies to field experiments and measurement infrastructures outside the premises of ETH Zurich.
For the Singapore-ETH Centre, the local regulations in Singapore apply. Doctoral students who are currently
still in Switzerland but are employed at SEC have to observe the restrictions on departure and entry between
Switzerland and Singapore. 
Page 3 of 3
Additional general notes:
• All employees should shut down any client computers that they leave at ETH (energy consumption,
fire hazard, cyber criminality).
• The same applies to device controllers, i.e. computers that control scientific devices such as
microscopes, centrifuges etc.
• The ID Service Desk will continue to be at the disposal of all employees and students via tickets, email
or telephone (https://ethz.ch/services/en/it-services/service-desk.html).
More information, contact points for questions and request forms will be published over the course of the next
few days on ETH Zurich’s Covid-19 website.
This directive is in force from 18 March 2020 onwards and will remain so until further notice. It may be
abrogated by the VPR.
Integral attachments to this directive:
Appendices A-D


Working from home
Until further notice, all ETH members must work from home effective immediately unless their physical presence at ETH Zurich is absolutely necessary.

The Swiss Federal Council declared a national state of emergency on 16 March. The entire population is being urgently called upon to minimise human contact for their own protection and the protection of others. ETH Zurich is doing everything in its power to help fight this pandemic and is therefore adapting its measures. Starting immediately and currently planned to continue until the end of May, all research and administrative activities must be carried out with as little human contact as possible.

Information from IT Services for people working from home

Corona virus can encourage cyberattacks
Hackers are always online! Now as we try to slow the spread of the coronavirus, online communication is crucial for ETH Zurich. Unfortunately, cyberattacks, computer viruses and other online threats can cause an unusual amount of damage right now. Cyberattackers may even use the corona topic itself to trick their targets into revealing sensitive information or donating to fraudulent charities or causes.
To protect yourself, please:

Be extra vigilant against phishing mails and scam calls!
Choose good passwords, also for your office infrastructure at home.
Make sure you always keep your software up to date! This also applies to your office infrastructure at home.
FAQs about working arrangements
Working from home
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Who decides whether I should work from home?Close
Given the state of emergency declared by the Swiss government, ETH Zurich has decided that ETH members are for the time being only allowed to come to the university if their physical presence is essential. All other staff must work from home with immediate effect.  

If I work from home, is that treated as normal working hours?Close
Working remotely, or “home office” as it is sometimes called, means that work is done at home to the best of your abilities and with the usual level of professionalism. You need to be contactable by email and phone and ensure reasonable response times. Your ETH phone line should be diverted to your home landline or mobile phone. You can access ETH data and applications via a VPN. You can hold online meetings with colleagues. Your supervisor can ask ETH for leave of absence if you need to deal with emergencies or private matters.

Work done at home is currently treated as normal working hours. However, employees do not have any general entitlement to record remote working hours: if no work is done, this is not considered working time and cannot be recorded as such. You can only record the usual number of daily working hours. Extra hours can only be claimed with the approval of your supervisor.. Employees must inform their supervisors if they do not have enough work. When recording your working hours, simply enter the hours you work at home and also tick the box “not on site”.

I have a task which I cannot complete working from home. Does that mean I have to take holidays?Close
Supervisors should enable you to work from home as far as operational and personnel conditions allow. This requires an agreement between supervisors and employees. If your work activity is not possible while working at home and you are ordered to stay at home, this counts as working time.

Comprehensive regulations regarding working time and holidays have not yet been communicated.

Holidays and working hours
Comprehensive regulations regarding working time and holidays have not yet been communicated.

Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Am I allowed to take holidays?Close
Yes, you can take holidays and your wishes should be accommodated. But please think about the timing and duration of your holiday, your destination and how you will get there. ETH currently advises against trips abroad for private reasons. Please note the various precautionary measures and directives given by the authorities to ensure the best possible protection for your work and family life.  

Can time and holiday credits be used?Close
As a supervisor, you can talk to employees and, in principle, you have the option of agreeing on compensation or benefits if there are extraordinary time credits (overtime, extra hours, holidays). This must be possible because of the work required, it should be agreed as early as possible and employees must be able to plan for this and be involved in the final decision so their needs are duly considered.  

Can ETH block or postpose my holidays?Close
Yes, but only on condition that your presence is needed to ensure the university’s continuing operations. As a rule, ETH must allow their staff to take holidays, but these must be discussed and in some cases approved by the supervisor. The supervisor may request that holidays be cancelled or postponed for urgent reasons. This requires special justification and the measure must be appropriate. In such a case, the employer must cover all costs incurred, subject to the supporting documentation.

Can ETH insist that holidays are taken, or require absence be treated as time or holiday credits?Close
Yes, as long as special justification is given. ETH must allow its staff reasonable flexibility in their holiday plans. In special cases (e.g. due to the work situation and taking into account the individual time and holiday credits) the option of holidays and compensation can be prescribed. However, if an employee is ordered to work from home or is absent due to illness, this is considered working time or sick leave.

Can someone starting employment already take holidays or unpaid leave?Close
The emergency situation requires flexible arrangements for working hours. Taking holidays or unpaid leave early is possible if this is agreed between the employee and their supervisor.

A comprehensive regulation on working hours and holidays will be communicated in early April.

May I postpone my holidays until after Corona?Close
Even during the pandemic period, employees should be able to take a holiday, even if they cannot travel. As a rule, holidays are arranged by mutual agreement between employer and employee and must take account of the operational conditions. In order to ensure that ETH Zurich can continue to operate after the corona period, it is important that the respective teams agree on holidays.  

Recruitment and start of employment
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Is faculty recruiting continuing? How are the hearings organized?Close
Yes, in principle faculty recruiting continues and interested candidates are welcome to apply for the published open positions at ETH. Regarding the appointment procedure, individual solutions are implemented for each single case.

Can employees and doctoral staff enter the country and take up their post at ETH Zurich?Close
In principle, new staff can start their employment with ETH Zurich, but it is important to make arrangements about the start of work. Check whether someone is able to meet the new team member and that the necessary infrastructure is available. At the moment, students and doctoral students should not attempt to enter Switzerland.
 

Can employment contracts be issued for postdoctoral students, postdocs etc. from other countries?Close
Yes, contracts can be signed. Contracts can be kept and wages can be paid. Wages can be paid to non-​swiss bank account.s People can stay abroad and work remotely. There are open questions about visas, registration and health insurance. We cannot clarify these completely now, as we are waiting for answers from the authorities.

Illness and doctor's note
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Does quarantine qualify as a period off sick?Close
Quarantine is understood to be medical isolation ordered the authorities. The person may be isolated with suspicion of the virus or may have been in contact with an infected person or may have contracted the virus. Those affected must stay at home and avoid contact with others. In principle, quarantine is classified as sickness. However, if a person is (partially) able to work soley due to suspicion of infection, the volume of work should be discussed with the supervisor.

When do I have to provide a doctor’s note?Close
As we want to avoid unnecessarily burdening the healthcare system during the coronavirus epidemic, you only have to provide a doctor’s note starting from the sixth day of illness. Your line manager can extend this to ten days upon agreement. Please talk to your line manager, inform them about your condition and discuss measures that can be taken for your responsibilities at work.

Can I get credited for working hours if I need to care for a sick person?Close
You are allowed to miss work for up to five days per calendar year if you need to take care of a sick person in the same household (paid working time). If you require more than five working days for this purpose, please talk to your line manager about how you can continue working remotely despite your caretaking obligations.  

Can we come back once we are immune?Close
No, as long as ETH is under emergency operations, you must stay in home office, unless you have an exception permit.

Do you have a reporting system if ETH member got infected? Is the information openly shared?Close
Bestätigte Fälle werden erfasst und die Personen in ihrer Gruppe werden informiert. Aus Gründen des Datenschutzes werden die Namen der Patienten jedoch nicht offengelegt.

Childcare
ETH has communicated a generous and accommodating regulation on working hours and childcare until 4 April 2020. An information and regulation is currently being prepared and will be communicated at the beginning of April 2020.

Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Are the day-​care centres and nurseries open?Close
Please check the information for the individual day-​care centre. They will keep parents informed.
The ETH nurseries, “kihz”, will initially only be open for emergency situations, and as long as the health of the children and staff can be safeguarded. Parents are asked to keep their children at home and not bring them to nursery until futher notice.

The need for emergency childcare will be assessed by the kihz Foundation based on the parent’s personal situation. Please contact kihz directly. Requests for urgent childcare arrangements due to operational necessity need to be forwarded by your supervisor to the Head of Human Resources (lukas.vonesch@hr.ethz.ch). He will liaise with other entities if necessary before reaching a decision. This procedure has been confirmed by the coronavirus task force as an immediate measure and is effective until further notice.

If parents cannot make alternative childcare arrangements, they should inform nursery staff immediately. The kihz Foundation will organise emergency childcare and must know which children require care on which days. If your child is cared for at home, it is important that your child does not spend time in a group with other children wherever possible. This is the only to halt the transmission of the coronavirus. It is also important that you continue to strictly follow all recommended hygiene measures at home.

Will ETH make provisions for any childcare necessary?Close
Parents are legally obliged to ensure that their children are looked after. Supervisors must provide parents with the necessary time to do so. Parents are obliged to organise appropriate care so that they can carry out their work in the best possible way. Supervisors are requested to show maximum flexibility regarding working from home and childcare arrangements. Up to 4 April 2020, ETH will pay for any time staff spend on childcare on top of their normal paid working hours.

Parents must discuss their childcare situation with their supervisors. If necessary, the responsible HR officers can be consulted. Parents must do their part to ensure that the tasks and operational procedures are carried out properly. If parents have a particular childcare situation and are unable to make any other childcare arrangements, the supervisor should take this into account and this time will be treated as paid working hours. Each childcare situation must be assessed individually on the basis of the work and family situation (possibility of working from home, parents with other employers, individual parent or family situation, age of the children, other care options, etc.). There is no general entitlement.

Where can I find tips on how to combine home office and childcare?Close
The Paul Scherrer Institut (PSI) has launched a new website with valuable tips for families who need to combine childcare and home office, e.g. with links to groups in the neighbourhood who support each other.  

Apprentices  
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
Will apprentices be able to continue their training?Close
Participating vocational schools and ETH’s vocational education and training office are doing everything to ensure that apprentices can continue their training and education. Vocational schools have been conducting distance learning since calendar weeks 12/13. Apprentices can continue their training by completing vocation-​specific assignments and/or individual distance learning modules.

We are currently working on a platform to offer learning opportunities and cross-​occupational assignments for apprentices who are underutilised.

What is the status of final exams for apprentices?Close
Despite the difficult situation, our goal is to allow all apprentices to complete their vocational diplomas (including the Berufsmatura I + II) in Summer 2020. Individual solutions will have to be found for each sector, as each field is impacted differently by the current crisis. Classroom learning and exams are postponed until further notice.
 

Employees from other countries
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
What's the policy if ETH group leaders want to send visiting students / guests back to home countryClose
Contracts and commitments should be respected. They can be terminated by mutual agreement. If the purpose of the stay is not possible, then a termination should be agreed upon. Costs may have to be paid.

What should ETH students / employees in foreign countries do?Close
If employees are currently abroad, the situation must be assessed individually. The protection of employees takes precedence. Travel restrictions apply. In principle, ETH must support the return and bear the costs.

Are doctoral students / employees allowed to leave Switzerland and return to their countries?Close
They can leave Switzerland at their own risk. But due to travel restrictions we advise against it. Working from abroad can only be a temporary solution by contract. Options are taking holidays and unpaid leave. Please involve the HR responsible of the department.

Cross-​border commuters: What are the rules?Close
The authorities in Switzerland and neighbouring countries decide on, and provide information on, the regulations for cross-​border commuters. These regulations are binding. Staff who commute across the Swiss border must discuss the situation with their supervisors and make preparations to maintain operational procedures and explore the possibility of working from home.  

Access for authorized personnel
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
What will access to the ETH campus look like for authorised personnel in the future?Close
ETH employees continue to have building access via their ETH card and the corresponding PIN. Checks will be made on a random basis. We ask all ETH members to act responsibly and only be on campus at ETH with a valid reason (approved exceptional cases, mail distribution, etc.).

Are invoices considered an emergency operation; i.e. have to be processed on campus?Close
Invoices should be processed, yes. It is possible to come to campus once a week, for instance, scan all mail and distribute via email to the persons concerned. Consult with your supervisor.

Responsibilities
Accordion. Press Tab to navigate to entries, then Enter to open or collapse content.
 Close all 
What are the responsibilities of supervisors (professors, line managers)?Close
The duties of supervisors include special responsibility for communicating the rules and ensuring their compliance. They are responsible for the adequate protection of students and staff (duty of care).

The top priority is to assure the health and well-​being of everyone, both at home and at work, and to contain the spread of the virus.
Supervisors are called upon to define the minimum physical attendance required within their team, subject to the mandatory precautions imposed, so that the university can continue to operate in emergency mode. In particular, they should make members with known pre-​existing medical conditions aware of the need for stricter precautions and take appropriate protective measures. These measures apply especially to staff working at the Customer Desk.

Supervisors and line managers must ensure that everyone working in their research group or area has the relevant information and observes the rules. They will contact people returning to Switzerland before they travel, and inform them about the regulations applying to travel from certain countries and the 14-​day self-​isolation period for working from home. If necessary, they will arrange suitable accommodation.

What are the responsibilities of students and staff?Close
Students and staff must observe the general precautions, especially regarding hygiene, travel and ETH events. Students with pre-​existing medical conditions should contact their study coordinator. Staff (including doctoral students) must inform their supervisor of any special medical complications.

