Our number one priority is the health of everyone who lives, works or studies on EPFL’s campuses in Ecublens, Geneva, Neuchâtel, Fribourg and Sion.

And each and every one of us has a part to play in this. The measures that EPFL has taken reflect our shared responsibility to protect those who are at especially high risk – people whose lives intersect with ours both on campus and around town. We must do all we can to slow the spread of this disease.

All staff are required to work remotely until 19 April
Given the changing public health situation in Switzerland, EPFL has extended the period during which all staff are required to work remotely until 19 April. Also, the Swiss Federal Council today adopted stricter measures, banning gatherings of more than five people.

For students, classes will continue to be given online.

Please keep in mind that the ban on entering EPFL buildings remains in effect. This ban, which was put in place on Tuesday, 17 March, applies to the entire EPFL community and visitors. Checks will be carried out.

In the light of the current situation, EPFL has decided to take further measures to slow the spread of the COVID-19.

We thank you for your cooperation in these troubled times.

These decisions are based on scientific data recalled by our experts in the video below.


ℹ️ Update on semester projects (18.03.2020)
Classes
As from Monday, 16 March 2020 until Sunday, 19 April 2020 inclusive, all classes will be given online, live and/or recorded with option to ask questions, at the teachers’ choice. Mid-term exams will be also be cancelled to the same dates.

Labs, practicals and seminars must also be held online; if that’s not possible, they must be postponed or cancelled, as decided by your teachers.

Semester projects and SHS projects are suspended pending a response to all cases.

Master’s projects, as well as projects worth 30 ECTS in the basic sciences (SPH and CGC), must also be carried out online, replaced by another type of work, or postponed.

School equipment provided by the EPFL for lab sessions and projects cannot be removed from EPFL premises. Access to EPFL premises is prohibited until further notice.

The library’s resources are available online. If you can’t find what you need, please contact our librarians through this page.

Since we had to put in place these exceptional measures so quickly, we cannot provide more detailed information at this point. It is also too soon to provide information on the current session examination.

Travel, exchange and holidays
All travel for educational purposes – internships, exchanges, study abroad, conferences, etc. – is prohibited.

As of today, almost all regions of the world present a risk of infection by the new coronavirus. We strongly advise students not to travel during their holidays or other leave.

Please consult the recommendations of the Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH). Quarantines could be applied to places you travel to, which would complicate to continue your studies.

Students who were supposed to head off for an internship or a Master’s project with a company: If you are already abroad, stay where you are if possible and comply with the directives issued in that country. If you haven’t left yet, your internship has been postponed. If it is in Switzerland, comply with the instructions of the company that hired you.

Exchange students who decide to leave EPFL can still continue their semester by taking our online classes. However, we would encourage you to stay, in order to complete the semester and avoid traveling under the current circumstances, although we understand that some of you may wish to return home.

The Federal Council recommends that Swiss people abroad return to Switzerland. EPFL students currently in an exchange program who nevertheless decide to stay where they are must comply with the instructions of their host universities and take the appropriate measures.

Exchange students currently at EPFL who decide to go back or who are called back by their home universities can also take our online classes.

In order to complete their semester, these students likely will have to return to EPFL when the situation returns to normal and take their exams.

Please take into consideration the fact that some exchange students may later not be authorized to return to Switzerland, or their return may be subject to restrictions or conditions, depending on government decisions.

Bringing visitors to campus
No one is permitted to bring visitors to campus for professional or educational purposes until further notice. We also ask that you postpone private meetings on EPFL campuses. It’s better to postpone a meeting than risk spreading the disease to other people.


Human resources
Holiday entitlement, extra/overtime hours
As of today, almost all regions of the world present a risk of infection by the new coronavirus. We strongly advise staff not to travel during their holidays or other leave. Please consult the recommendations of the Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH). Quarantines could be applied to places you travel to, which would require you to extend your stay (and that time will be deducted from your holiday entitlement).

Absence manager
All staff must follow the self-isolation guidelines and comply with all instructions issued by EPFL and their supervisors. In general, if you are in self-isolation, you are considered to be working from home.

Starting on Monday, 16 March, and until 19 April, EPFL requires all staff to work remotely. No one is allowed on site, apart from those who have been granted an exception by the DSPS.

Since the requirement to work remotely applies School-wide, you must no longer enter this into the absence manager.

However, if you are sick – regardless of the cause – you must enter this as sick leave in the absence manager.

To avoid overloading the health system, anyone who is sick is not required to provide a medical certificate until 19 April 2020.×
Pregnant women
The Swiss Society of Obstetrics and Ginecology has not identified any special risks to pregnant women. According to the Federal Office of Public Health, pregnant women should apply the same measures as those for non-pregnant adult women. However, we recommend you consult with a gynecologist if you have a high-risk pregnancy or if you just want to play it safe.

Children and other loved ones
Since schools are closed in Vaud and in the cantons that host our other sites – Campus Biotech, Microcity, EPFL Valais-Wallis and EPFL Fribourg – EPFL considers it an absolute priority that you be able to take care of your children and other loved ones.

Professional priorities must therefore be reassessed, and you should talk to your head of service about the amount of work you can do remotely based on your personal situation. EPFL will be flexible.


Remote work
Cybercriminals and scammers are now using the branding of trusted organizations such as the WHO, the CDC or the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health in order to build credibility and get users to open attachments, click on malicious links or disclose personal/sensitive information.

While the EPFL has not been directly targeted by such attempts (yet), we encourage you to remain vigilant and take the following precautions :

Avoid clicking on links in unsolicited emails and be wary of email attachments,
Use only trusted sources, such as legitimate EPFL, cantonal or federal websites for up-to-date, fact-based information about COVID-19,
Send any suspicious emails to 1234@epfl.ch for analysis.
The security and the integrity of our information system is of utmost importance in these challenging times and you are an active part of it.


×
EPFL now requires all staff to work remotely until 19 April. No one is allowed on site, apart from those who have been granted an exception by the DSPS. This measure is fully justified by the very fast spread of COVID-19 in Switzerland – the number of cases is doubling every two days.

Measures
Starting on Monday, 16 March, all EPFL staff members and researchers are required to work remotely.
EPFL will reassess this measure based on how the public health situation in Switzerland evolves.
Exceptions are possible for imperative reasons, but the requests must be submitted to your dean (for the schools) or vice president (for central services). These requests will be submitted in order of priority to the Coronavirus Task Force, which was set up for this exceptional situation, for approval.
Teachers are authorized to come to campus to record streaming classes that require a demonstration with lab equipment. This represents an imperative reason.
Continuity plans (aimed at protecting staff members while keeping the activity running) have been put in place for the security, facility maintenance and management teams.
We are now asking every team, every center and every laboratory to develop a continuity plan in line with its needs and mission (see the principles below).

This plan must be written down and shared with the team’s or lab’s staff
Central services teams must share their plan with their supervisor
Zoom can be used for (internal and external) meetings and for maintaining friendly contact with people while working remotely.
Starting today and throughout this exceptional situation, it is possible to transfer calls from your work phone to any outside landline or mobile phone.
Questions? First of all, refer to the instructions on this website. This website is updated daily and has answers to most of your questions.
In addition, as already announced yesterday, from Monday, 16 March, until Sunday, 19 April, all EPFL classes will be given online (live and/or recorded). 

Principles for preparing a continuity plan
Our top priorities are the health of staff members and anyone else involved in these activities, and our social responsibility to slow the spread of the virus. Efforts to minimize the damage that the health measures may cause to research projects are of secondary importance.
The instructions provided on this website, which were issued by EPFL, must imperatively be followed.
Working remotely is the basic rule; any exceptions must be approved by your supervisor.
Zoom meetings are encouraged.
Operational continuity must be achieved while ensuring people who have the same tasks do not work alongside each other, in order to minimize the risk.
Any work that involves people being in contact (interactive tests or questionnaires, work involving patients, etc.) must be put on hold until further notice.
All non-essential and non-urgent experimental work must be postponed.
All experimental work that cannot be postponed must be able to be carried out with more than two meters between each person and without people touching the same object (instrument, lab bench, glass, etc.), while adhering to the standard safety guidelines.
What you need to work remotely
Here is a list of software and services available to the EPFL community that allow you to work off site easily and efficiently.

Office software
Remote email access
You can use either a computer or your smartphone to access your EPFL email account off campus.

Go to the email configuration and support page for more information.

Remote access to your Exchange Calendar
You can access your Exchange Calendar over the web as well as through the Outlook (Windows and Mac) and iCal (Mac) clients.

Go to the calendar page for details on how this works.

Remote intranet access
If you want to use certain services on EPFL’s intranet, such as WordPress and Sesame, you’ll need to set up a VPN connection with EPFL.

Go to the VPN clients available page to learn how to install a VPN client.

Telephony
Call forwarding
As of today and for the duration of this exceptional situation, it is possible to forward calls from your internal phone to any fixed or mobile phone number.

Remote access to Jabber
You can install Cisco’s Jabber Softphone on your computer or smartphone.

Video conferencing
You can use Zoom to set up and participate in video conferences, simple online meetings and group messaging.

Official virtual backgrounds for zoom conferences are available on Corp-ID Inside webpage.

The Center for Digital Education (CEDE) and Teaching Support Center (CAPE) have setup documentation and a Help Desk to support teachers for the online conferencing tool ZOOM, Moodle and Speakup.

IT Service Desk

The Service Desk helps answer and solve all your IT problems and questions.

email: 1234@epfl.ch
phone: 021 / 693 1234

For your requests concerning coronavirus, please use this form.

Ergonomics
Do you want to make your computer station at home as ergonomic as possible during this work-from-home period?

Administrative matters
Now that all EPFL staff are working from home, we thought it would be helpful to provide you with some information about ongoing administrative matters.

One exception to the ban on coming to campus
As you have learned from our various messages, you are required to work remotely and are not permitted to come to campus. The only exception is if you need to pick up mail or deal with bills, under the following conditions:

You are permitted to come to EPFL on Thursday, 19 March, or Friday, 20 March, as long as you show this message (printed copy or on your phone) – it is the only acceptable proof of DSPS authorization.
You can only stay long enough to pick up and scan mail and bills in accordance with the VPFI’s instructions (see attached document: VPFI-COVID-19).
You should arrange things with other people going to the same building so that you don’t all go at the same time.
You should keep your distance from other people, in keeping with the FOPH recommendations.
You mustn’t gather around the multifunction printer/scanners or in the cafeterias.
You need to keep your time on campus to an absolute minimum, no more than two hours in any case. You are not permitted to come and spend the day working on campus – you may only scan mail and bills.
Please comply with these measures, which are very strict but absolutely essential given this extraordinary situation. We must all live up to our responsibilities.

Services provided by the VPFI: how to get bills processed and paid, and how to contact the VPFI
Given the circumstances, we must focus on keeping the School running, and this includes processing financial transactions. The attached file provides the information you’ll need to ensure we can continue to receive payments and pay bills without a hitch.

Documents
Instructions and procedures for processing and paying invoices and contacting the VPFI
Mail service
The caretakers will continue to deliver mail. However, the delivery of internal mail has been halted until further notice.

If possible, please scan any documents you wish to share and send them by email.

Hiring
EPFL will honor employment contracts that have already been signed. This means that new staff members will begin their contract by working remotely and start being paid, even if they are still outside Switzerland.

For future employment contracts, your supervisor and your HR manager will assess and confirm hiring dates on a case-by-case basis, including for new hires currently living abroad, given the exceptional circumstances caused by COVID-19.

Orders
Please do not place any orders during this period, in order to limit the number of deliveries to campus.

You should also contact your suppliers and ask them to send their bills via email.

We will provide further information on package delivery by shipping carriers other than the Swiss Post Office.

Refrigerators
This is not a particularly crucial issue, but please be aware that refrigerators and food containers will be cleaned by ISS staff, and any perishable items will be thrown away. No one is allowed to go to EPFL in order to retrieve any food left in the refrigerators.

Questions and information
You should continue to refer to this website. The information in this email will also be added to it. If you have any questions about administrative matters, please submit them through the Service Now form.

Conferences & events
Bringing visitors to campus
No one is permitted to bring visitors to campus for professional or educational purposes until further notice. We also ask that you postpone private meetings on EPFL campuses. It’s better to postpone a meeting than risk spreading the disease to other people. You can always hold video conferences using Zoom.

Events
All events scheduled to be held at EPFL or the SwissTech Convention Center between now and 19 April 2020 have been cancelled or postponed.

This decision takes effect on Thursday, 12 March 2020. It applies to all EPFL events regardless of where they are to be held – including off-campus events and events at our other four campuses.

The situation will be reassessed and we will update you in due course.


Travel
Until further notice, travel for professional or educational purposes within Switzerland or abroad is prohibited until 19 April 2020 (inclusive). This ban applies to all EPFL entities.
 
You may continue to commute from your home to work if absolutely necessary.

Areas
All countries in the world have been affected. If you return from a trip to somewhere that the coronavirus has been officially detected, we ask you to remain at home for 14 days. You must inform your supervisor and work from home.

Reimbursement of travel expenses
The spread of coronavirus (COVID-19) is disrupting project-related travel plans, with financial implications. The guidance below explains whether third-party funds cover prepaid costs, what you need to do to claim back those costs, and what to do if you have to cancel a trip.

Reclaiming non-refundable costs from donors if you have to cancel your trip
Do third-party funds cover prepaid, non-refundable travel expenses if the organizer cancels an event or if I cannot travel because of coronavirus?

EU
Yes, as explained in Art. 51 (“Force Majeure”) of the Annotated Model Grant Agreement:

You must immediately notify the Europe project officer (or the project coordinator if the unit is not coordinating the project) that the event has been canceled or postponed.
You must quickly put in place all possible measures to limit the damage caused by the cancellation or postponement, including measures to limit related costs (such as requesting a refund from the event organizer or tour operator, or filing an insurance claim), and you must be able to produce evidence of these measures for financial reporting and audit purposes.
You must notify the project coordinator of all planning-related costs incurred ahead of the event.
Swiss National Science Foundation
Yes, in the following two cases: 

The organizer cancels the event: in this case, keep evidence of the cancellation and send it to the controlling department along with your financial report. The controlling department will submit the evidence via the mySNF portal.
The event is still going ahead, but it’s taking place in an area that EPFL officially considers to be affected by the coronavirus.
Innosuisse
Yes, as long as the costs meet the usual restrictive criteria for travel expenses (i.e. they are included in the budget and relate to people directly involved in the project).

Please keep evidence of the cancellation and send it to the controlling department along with your financial report.

United States
No, US-based donors generally impose strict rules on travel expense eligibility.

Other donors (commercial enterprises, non-profit entities, etc.)
Eligibility will depend on the terms of the contract with each donor. Contact the fund management team for more information.

Travel cancellation guidelines
Will I be reimbursed for travel expenses already incurred for a trip or event that has been cancelled?

You should first do what you can to minimize the lost travel expenses, such as by requesting a refund from the organizers or the travel agent, or by taking advantage of any travel insurance you may have.

In any case, you must keep all documentation related to your trip – the initial reservation, the cancelled travel, and the steps you take to obtain a refund.

Reservations made through CWT
If you made your reservation through the CWT travel agency at EPFL, you should contact the agency directly at epfl@carlsonwagonlit.ch before the scheduled departure date. The agency will handle the reimbursement or rebooking request. Please be aware that different airlines have different cancellation and change policies.

Train tickets purchased at the SBB Business ticket shop
You can request a refund online by filling out a form on the SBB Business ticket website.

You must make the request before the scheduled departure date. More information is available on the SBB Businesstravel page on the EPFL website.

Reservations made through other companies
If you made your travel reservations through another provider, you are responsible for cancelling or changing your trip and requesting the corresponding reimbursements.

If you paid for your trip using an EPFL credit card (individual or corporate card), you must make the reimbursement request directly.

More information is available on the EPFL support website, or you can send us an email at 1234@epfl.ch.

PhD Students
Delay in your thesis?   
The closure of the campus and the cancellation of doctoral courses raises concerns about possible delays of the thesis work, candidacy or thesis exam. Please, rest assured that solutions will be found so that you can finalize your PhD under good (properly financed, etc.) conditions.

So please:

Stay at home for now / no access to campus
Discuss with your thesis Director the consequences of a possible delay in your thesis
If this does not lead to a reasonable solution, contact your Doctoral Program or EPFL’s Doctoral School (gestion.edoc@epfl.ch)
Doctoral Courses
All doctoral courses classes are cancelled until Sunday, 19 April 2020 inclusive, date on which the situation will be reassessed.

Bringing visitors to campus
No one is permitted to bring visitors to campus for professional or educational purposes until further notice. We also ask that you postpone private meetings on EPFL campuses. It’s better to postpone a meeting than risk spreading the disease to other people.

Oral Exam, Public Defence and Candidacy Exam
No Oral Exams, Public Defences or Candidacy Exams can take place “in person” during the period defined by the most recent communications from EPFL, which is until 19th April 2020 included.

They must be completed by videoconference only (Zoom, Webex or other videoconference systems). Each participant connects separately – thus not from the same location/computer. It is important to test the configuration before the event.

In light of these conditions, if you prefer, you can defer your Oral Exam, Public Defence or Candidacy Exam to a later date. Please contact your doctoral program administration directly if this is how you choose to proceed.

Online resources to keep mind and body active
All EPFL buildings have been closed since 17 March 2020 and will remain so until further notice. Students are prohibited from coming to campus, and all staff are required to work remotely. All stores, restaurants, bars, and leisure and entertainment facilities will be closed until 19 April 2020, with the exception of grocery stores, pharmacies and healthcare facilities.

Wondering how to fill your time?

Here, you’ll find some ideas on how to keep your mind and body active while working or taking classes from home. We’ll be adding new activities in the coming weeks. And there’s even something for children, with EPFL’s Science at home page.

Learn at home with the EPFL Extension School
Now is your chance to turn uncertainty into productivity. All EPFL Extension School courses are 100% online and entirely self-paced, taking you from little or limited knowledge to mastery of foundational digital, data or coding skills.

During this exceptional time of confinement and disruption, EPFL employees will enjoy a significant discount on Extension School courses.

See all available courses


Keep fit at home
Head to the Lausanne University Sports Facebook page and website for links, tutorials and advice on staying in shape during this period of confinement, with twice-weekly updates. You’ll find tips on keeping fit, relaxing your body and mind, eating well, and more.


7-minute workout
Access the library from home
The EPFL Library may be closed, but you can still access the collections electronically. Browse and read thousands of documents online, from the comfort of your couch.

For more details, go to the EPFL library page


Science at home
EPFL’s Science Outreach Department has put together a collection of activities to keep your budding scientists’ and engineers’ minds active.

