CORONAVIRUS: INFORMATION FOR OUR COMMUNITY AND VISITORS
27 March 2020, 09:00

GRADUATE INSTITUTE CLASSES OFFERED EXCLUSIVELY ONLINE
 

23 March 2020 - Although the coronavirus epidemic has meant the closure of our campuses, the Institute is committed to retaining continuity in our academic programmes.

For this reason, we are pleased to announce that all of our classes are available in an online format until further notice.
 

21 March 2020 - We learned that a Graduate Institute student who was residing off Campus, has tested positive for the coronavirus upon returning to his home country mid-March. We have been in contact with the student who is doing well and he is receiving the appropriate care. We wish him a swift recovery.

The student was following five courses. Professors, teaching assistants, and students who were in his courses have been informed and received the recommendation to put themselves in self-quarantine.

We continue to monitor the situation and are working closely with the local authorities.

 

GRADUATE INSTITUTE CLOSURE INFORMATION
16 March 2020 - The safety and well-being of our community is our highest priority and we are continuing to monitor the situation closely and follow the recommendations of the Swiss Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH) as well as the State of Geneva.

IMPORTANT INFORMATION :

Please note that as of 16:00 CET, Monday 16 March

The cafeteria and restaurant will be closed until further notice
The following measures will be implemented as of Wednesday 18 March until further notice:

The Library will be closed.
Campus buildings will be accessible to authorised persons only to ensure the maintenance of essential services.
All staff will work from home, all classes will be offered exclusively online as of Monday 23 March, and essential administrative and technical services will be managed by a limited number of staff selected by senior management.
Public events, meaning events open to the external public, continue to be cancelled until further notice. Please note that some events may be available via live stream only. Please consult our events page for the latest updates.


FOR STUDENTS
IMPORTANT INFORMATION : Please note that as of 13 March 2020:

All classes (courses and workshops), including those that are currently offered online, and office hours will be suspended starting the morning of 13 March until 23 March.
Classes will be offered exclusively online as of Monday 23 March until the end of the semester. Office hours will in principle be offered online as well.
In light of the exceptional circumstances due to the outbreak of the Covid 19 virus in Switzerland and worldwide, we understand that some students may be affected financially and would require some financial assistance due to their particular situation caused by the pandemic.
If you consider that you are adversely affected and are unable to cope with possible additional expenses, please fill this form.
We will review your particular situation and will get back to within a period of 2 weeks.

CORONAVIRUS: INFORMATION FOR OUR COMMUNITY AND VISITORS
PREVENTION AND WELL-BEING
FOR STUDENTS
FOR FACULTY
EVENTS AT THE GRADUATE INSTITUTE
PREVENTION AND WELL-BEING
 
The safety and well-being of our community is our highest priority. Please see our prevention and well-being page for details on how you can help protect yourself and prevent the spread of the coronavirus.

 

HOW TO ATTEND CLASSES ONLINE
 
Classes are now offered exclusively online until the end of the semester. Please refer to the following instructions to learn how to access classes online.

 

STUDENT HOUSING
 
For preventive reasons, the Student House is accessible to tenants and authorised personnel only until further notice.

As a precaution, and to ensure the well-being of all of our tenants, a security guard has been placed at the entrance of the Student House.

Meetings in apartment common areas are not permitted, and each resident must stay in their respective accommodation.

Please note the following closures and new schedules:

The fitness room is closed.
The common room will be open every day from 9:00 to 18:00 for tenants and students only.
The laundry room as well as the garbage room will remain accessible.
Please respect the enforced recommendations, particularly those regarding social distancing when using common spaces.

For any housing related questions, please contact:  housing.administration@graduateinstitute.ch

 

ABSENCES DUE TO ILLNESS?
 
Faculty are asked to maintain flexibility in allowing students to decide whether or not to attend classes without providing a valid medical certificate from a doctor.  However, if you are ill (cough and fever) and the course is not yet online, we invite you to stay home. The Office of the Director of Studies will inform the instructor and allow you, if you are able, to follow the course via Skype.

HOW TO CONDUCT ONLINE CLASSES
The platform is based on Google Hangouts Meet and Moodle. The following steps will help you get started.

 

STEP 1: HOW TO USE GOOGLE HANGOUTS MEET
Download the Google Hangouts Meet Guide (PDF) to find out how to use the platform.
 

STEP 2: HOW TO CREATE A GOOGLE HANGOUT MEET COURSE INVITATION
Download the Google Hangouts Meet Event Creation Guide (PDF) to find out how to create a course invitation.

STEP 3: HOW TO RECORD A COURSE
The second step shows you how use the platform to record a course. Download the instructions (PDF).

FOR FACULTY
As part of the coronavirus action plan, the Institute has developed a platform that will allow faculty to provide online courses if need be.

Please note: Before using this platform, faculty should inform the Service Desk.

If you wish to Go Virtual now, the Service Desk is ready to receive you. Please contact them on 4444, press 1 or email servicedesk@graduateinstitute.ch where they will set up an appointment with you to go through the details together.

If you have any questions, please contact servicedesk@graduateinstitute.ch

EVENTS AT THE GRADUATE INSTITUTE
IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Due to evolving public health risks related to the novel coronavirus, public events, meaning events open to the external public, are cancelled beginning 13 March until 31 May.

Please note that some events may be available via live stream only. Please consult our events page for the latest updates.

UPCOMING EVENTS
IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Due to evolving public health risks related to the novel coronavirus, public events, meaning events open to the external public, are cancelled beginning 13 March until 31 May.

Please note that some events may be available via live stream only. Please consult the list below for the latest updates.

