On 28 March the Ticino State Council announced that the restrictive measures to protect the population have been prolonged at least until 5 April (see here).

Such measures will affect our community closely:

Access to Swiss borders for professional reasons is no longer guaranteed. The only exception are employees (of USI and its affiliated Institutes) who participate in the activities essential for the social-healthcare sector such as chemical-pharmaceutical and medical.
It is forbidden to gather in groups of more than 5 people and, within smaller groups, social distances of at least two metres, must be kept. Study rooms for USI students will therefore be closed. The eLab's support to teachers will be provided in person by appointment only, and for issues that cannot be solved remotely.
The self-quarantine in case of close contact with a confirmed case of COVID-19 has been extended from 5 to 10 days (more information here)
The activities allowed are those that can be carried out on remote from home, and punctual interventions aimed at resolving interruptions of service. The latter will be carried out through shifts.

EXTRAORDINARY SITUATION

Conduct guidelines according to the authorities: Stay at home, especially if you are elderly or ill. Only go out if you have to go to work and cannot work from home, to go to the doctor or pharmacy, or run essential shopping errands or help someone.

The Federal Council has declared an "extraordinary situation". Therefore, at least until 19 April:

LESSONS: they will continue through eLearning. In-classroom courses and exams will not resume before 20 April. The University will ensure fair treatment of all students, so that they are adequately prepared to take the exams at the end of the semester.
EVENTS: Any public event is prohibited.
WORK AND RESEARCH: #USI SERVICES. Open, but in a different way. The services are active in remote and with scheduled shifts, by appointment only. Contacts available here.
ACCESS LIMITATIONS

Access to campus buildings for USI staff and Faculty is by badge only and only for brief emergencies in respect of the stricter health safety measure and keeping social distance.   
According to Dpcm 11 March 2020 of the Italian Government and to the border control measures adopted on 13 March by the Swiss Government: access to the Lugano and Mendrisio campuses is restricted until a date to be determined to all students, academic staff and administrative assistants residing in Italy.
SYMPTOMS, CONTACT, PEOPLE AT RISK

Please refer to all the provisions shared by the cantonal MD and the Federal Office of Public Health. For updates on the matter refer to

Cantonal doctor's office: www.ti.ch/coronavirus
Federal Office of Public Health: https://www.bag.admin.ch/bag/it/home/krankheiten/ausbrueche-epidemien-pandemien/aktuelle-ausbrueche-epidemien/novel-cov.html
THIS IS HOW WE PROTECT OURSELVES

Soap on campuses have been replaced with a sanitizing product and sanitizing hand gel has been distributed. Every morning, the cleaning companies sanitize common areas and offices with specific products.
We can all make a difference: all health-safety measures to be adopted according to the Federal Office of Health can be found at the following link: https://ufsp-coronavirus.ch/
EDUCATION

Courses and eLearning: from 12 March to 20 April 2020 in-classroom lessons and exams have been suspended. The courses continue in eLearning, mostly through the iCorsi platform, which we invite you to check constantly for any updates on the teaching activity.
Useful information for students: www.usi.ch/imparo-coronavirus
Useful information for teachers: www.usi.ch/didattica-coronavirus
Course coordinators who need to use their offices have access to the campuses for brief emergencies only. Interaction with the eLab usually takes place on remote (see above).
Where appropriate, the Faculty members are authorised (in temporary derogation from the regulations in force) to organise the thesis discussion by videoconference.
For questions, please contact the Dean's office directly, by email and telephone (see contacts below).
WORK AND RESEARCH

Opening: USI #Services. Open, but in a different way
The Services of the University and Institutes remain operational in remote and with brief scheduled shifts for some of the Services. The shifts will be planned with the respective coordinators (Logistics and Surveillance, Human Resources and Controlling, eLab, IT Services, Institutional Communication). Services contacts are available here.
Employees are therefore invited to hold meetings and interviews by videoconference and telephone.  
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES

The University Library of Lugano and that of Mendrisio will remain closed to the public, online services are guaranteed.

FOOD SERVICES ON CAMPUS
The Lugano campus Mensa and the Osteria Vignetta on Mendrisio campus are closed until further notice. 

COPY CENTER

The Lugano campus copy center is closed to the public. Those in charge will continue to guarantee printer services on Lugano campus and will answer to their number for any technical issue (058 666 4586). For printing requests, such as student theses, please write to copycenter@usi.ch (terms for delivery at home will be defined with the service provider).

TRAVEL

There is a risk of new coronavirus outbreaks in almost every region of the world. USI does not authorise its employees to travel for work purposes and suggests to comply with federal authorities recommendations 
(https://www.bag.admin.ch/bag/it/home/krankheiten/ausbrueche-epidemien-pandemien/aktuelle-ausbrueche-epidemien/novel-cov/empfehlungen-fuer-reisende.html)
Study trips are prohibited
SPORTING ACTIVITIES
Sports activities and events of any kind and category are prohibited (individual sports activities are permitted). The activities of USI Sport Service are therefore suspended, but will still continue on the USI YouTube channel in the playlist Pillole di sport.  

FACULTY DEAN'S OFFICE

Dean's offices will remain operative in remote:

Studying in the time of Coronavirus
Institutional Communication Service

03/12/2020

Some useful suggestions from the Pro-Rector for Education and Students' Experience Lorenzo Cantoni for effective distance learning.

 

Distance learning is a fascinating and exicting challenge, which can require specific skills and talent.

Distance learning means:

 

1. Responsibility

Organize your work in a systematic way: schedule your day as if you were on campus, keeping up with the different activities that are proposed to you
Check regularly the iCorsi platform, where your lecturers will regularly publish teaching materials and updates
Manage your study time carefully: don't let the flexibility of distance learning become an alibi for putting off individual study time
Stay focused on studying: multitasking is not always a positive thing. When you study or follow remotely a lesson don't get distracted by other online activities: in other words, don't let iCorsi compete with Netflix...
 

2. Solidarity

Stay in touch with your classmates through forums, online chat or messaging systems, on iCorsi, or other online services
Share the experiences and strategies that have proved to be useful
Help those who cannot follow any distance learning activities
 

3. Studying

Make sure you make enough time to study: distance learning requires just as much time as studying on campus!
Find a quiet place to study, enabling you to carry out the required activities with due tranquility
Explain to your family members that you are not playing Fortnite but that you're studying, so you shouldn't be disturbed
Plan for recess time and do some physical exercise between study sessions (such as those suggested by the USI Sport Service: you can follow their suggestions from the YouTube channel of USI in the playlist Pillole di sport, which will be constantly updated).

Teaching in the time of Coronavirus
Institutional Communication Service

03/22/2020

Some useful suggestions from the Pro-Rector for Education and Students' Experience Lorenzo Cantoni for effective distance learning

 

GENERAL ADVICE

Mode

Fully online
Mainly asynchronous
“Temporal”: learning resources are released according to the course timetable, week by week; possible synchronous sessions within the timetable
We recommend

Videos synchronized with slides (using Panopto) or only videos + slides
If possible, max. 20 minutes for 1 hour in class (if possible, divided into more than one video)
Assign readings, exercises, discussions, quizzes, ... 
We support

Coaching and help-desk via e-mail (helpdesk@elearninglab.org) or phone +41 (0)58 666 4760
Two recording rooms have been equipped in Lugano and one in Mendrisio. If you want to book a room, send an e-mail to helpdesk@elearninglab.org (as a rule, eLab provides only remote support; only in exceptional cases, on specific requests from teachers, the presence of an eLab collaborator in the room can be guaranteed).
Always use the Announcements forum of iCorsi to promptly inform students about the support activities you have decided to implement.
Please avoid as much as possible sending individual emails.

 

HIGHLIGHTS

Panopto: this tool is useful to record from home or office your slides with an audio commentary, and then make them available to students via a link to be published on iCorsi.

Screencast-o-matic: this tool is useful to quickly create short videos of your slides with an audio commentary (videos of max. 15 minutes in the free version). 

Microsoft Teams: this tool is useful to broadcast live your lesson, from USI or from home. 

You can find the user's handbooks for Panopto, Screencast-o-matic and MS Teams on the manuals' page of iCorsi (constantly updated): https://www.icorsi.ch/mod/folder/view.php?id=109435

 

DISTANCE LEARNING

What can I do?

1. Check that all materials are duly uploaded on iCorsi

2. Record audio and/or video of your lesson from home:

Create short audio/videos (from 3 to 10 minutes, indicatively) with the main contents of your lesson, to be shared on iCorsi
Create slides with audio comment with Panopto or Screencast-o-matic, to be shared on iCorsi
Broadcast your lesson live via web conferencing systems, like Skype, Microsoft Teams, …
2. Assign tasks to be carried out long distance:

Assign students additional bibliographic materials (books, book chapters, papers, etc.)
Assign students additional digital learning materials: online articles, videos (e.g. TED Talks or others), online courses (MOOCs) or parts of courses, etc.
Propose discussions and Q&A sessions via Skype (synchronous) or via forums on iCorsi (asynchronous)
Have students collaboratively create online concept maps on course content (remote group work) via Mindmeister
Propose individual or group activities of reflection / reflective practice (e.g.: journal or diary) to students, to be published and shared on the ePortfolio platform
Create self-assessment exercises for students as quizzes on iCorsi
Other… be creative!
 
The University services remain operative, in a different way. In general, the work of the services will be carried out from home, some with shifts for punctual interventions on Campus aimed at resolving service interruptions (agreed with the respective managers). Here are the contacts to reach them by email and phone. 

Human Resources Unit: the unit receives requests by e-mail as a priority and remains available by prior appointment for very urgent matters. Documents: in mail room 350, box Nr. 42.
Information and requests: personale.lu@usi.ch

Institutional Communication Service: the service remains open mainly online (with staff working shifts for emergencies).
Information and requests: press@usi.ch; tel. +41 58 666 4792

Career service and alumni: the service will remain open in smart working mode
Information and requests: careerservice@usi.ch, tel. +41 58 666 46 06

Controlling service: the service remains open and available via email or telephone. Please follow the procedure for forwarding invoices communicated by email on 16.03.
Information and requests: controlling@usi.ch; tel. +41 58 666 4615

eLearning Lab: the eLearning Lab continues to support the academic community both in attendance on appointment (with staff working shifts) and online.
Information and requests: info@elearninglab.org; tel. +41 58 666 47 60

Servizio front office: the service will remain open in smart working mode.
Information and requests: classroom booking, gestione-aule.lu@usi.ch; business travel desk, gestione-viaggi.lu@usi.ch; housing service, alloggi@usi.ch, usihome@usi.ch e stabilecarnio@usi.ch

Legal service: the service will remain open and remains available as usual by email and phone.
Information and requests: serviziogiuridico@usi.ch; tel. +41 58 666 4929

IT Service: remain open and continue their activities online (with staff working shifts for emergencies).
Information and requests: campus Lugano itsupport.lu@usi.ch, tel. +41 58 666 46 10; campus Mendrisio itsupport.me@usi.ch, tel. +41 58 666 5883; IRB and IOR itsupport.be@usi.ch, tel. +41 58 666 5370

Logistics Service: the service remains open in attendance (with staff working shifts) from 7.15 am to 17.15 pm. Preferably available by phone
Informations and requests: tel. +41 58 666 4730, logistica.lu@usi.ch, 

Study Advisory and Promotion Service: the service will remain open in smart working mode.
Information and requests: studyadvisor@usi.ch, tel. +41 58 666 47 95

Security Service – Lugano Campus: remains open as usual from 17.00 pm to 7.00 am.
Contacts: tel. +41 58 666 4730

Web service: the service will remain open in smart working mode.
Information and requests: web@usi.ch; tel. +41 58 666 4515

Research and Transfer Service: the service will remain open and remains available as usual by email and phone.
Informazioni e richieste: servizio.ricerca@usi.ch; tel. +41 58 666 4888

CP Start-up: the service will remain open in smart working mode.
Information and requests: info@cpstartup.ch

Equal Opportunities Service: the service will remain open in smart working mode. It also remains available to provide personalised support to anyone who has difficulties with e-learning activities due to specific learning disorders or disability situations (consult the thematic area dedicated to equal opportunities on the USI website). 
Information and requests: equality@usi.ch

Quality service: remains open and available via email or telephone.
Information and requests: qualita@usi.ch; tel. +41 58 666 4199

International Relations and Study Abroad Service: the service will remain open in smart working mode. Exchange students can contact the Service via email for any need.
Information and requests: relint@usi.ch

Sport service: the service remains available for remote advice for individual training needs. In parallel, “Sports pills” will be proposed on the USI YouTube channel
Information and requests: sport@usi.ch, tel. +41 58 666 4797

L'ideatorio: the activities in Cadro planned for schools and the public have been cancelled or, where possible, postponed.
Information and requests: ideatorio@usi.ch; tel. +41 58 666 4332


University libraries: the University Library of Lugano and the Library of Mendrisio will be closed to the public until 20 April, when in classroom courses will remsume. Online services are guaranteed.

Copy Center: the Copy Center on Lugano Campus is closed to the public. Those in charge will continue to guarantee printing services on the Lugano campus and will answer to the hotline in case of technical problems (058 666 4586). For printing requests, such as students thesis, please write to copycenter@usi.ch (delivery methods will be defined with the service provider).

