Status March 16th, 6 PM

The Conseil d'Etat du canton de Vaud declared today a "state of necessity" for the entire territory of Vaud, as of tomorrow, Tuesday 17, 6 a.m.. Then the Swiss Federal Council declared the state of "extraordinary circumstances". This demands further adaptation of our institutional functioning, particularly with regard to employees' access to the campus.

The crisis we are going through create organizational challenges that will call for many specific responses for students and staff alike, whether in teaching, research or administrative and technical services.

We will provide you with regular and targeted information to ensure the best possible running of the semester and to ensure institutional continuity, which should initially be limited to the most essential services.

In the meantime, your find hereunder the most important information.

For employees

Access to the campus will be even more strictly limited: by default, any member of the staff will remain at home teleworking and/or waiting for instructions from his or her superiors. The decision-making competence for a presence on campus depends on your Dean, on your department head or on the Rectorate, depending on your hierarchical attachment.

The Webex meeting and videoconferencing solution is available here:

https://www.unil.ch/ci/distrisoft

For students

The classes will continue to be given on line for several weeks, and this could extend even to the entire semester. The Faculties have started to deploy their system and will continue this work in the coming days. The first classes are already online.

The Rectorate and the Faculties will now work on questions relating to exams and the conditions of validation.

The services in charge of student affairs (Guidance and Counselling Service-SOC, Social Affairs and Student Mobility Services-SASME, Registration and Enrolment Service-SII) continue to respond online to your requests – even though their counters are closed. Please consult their web pages.

Institutional continuity

The Rectorate has set up an emergency mechanism, the three priorities of which at this stage are as follows:

to protect people,
to guarantee the essential functioning of the institution,
to ensure that the semester can continue
The work carried out in recent weeks has made it possible to strengthen the IT systems as well as the online learning services so as to make sure they cope with a greatly increased  usage.

We will  send you in the coming days more specific information depending on your status as a student, teacher or administrative and technical collaborator. In the mean time we appeal once again to the individual responsibility and solidarity of all members of the UNIL community. Respect the instructions in all circumstances, in the interest of all!

Status March 16th, 2 PM

Message from the Rector

Dear Members of the UNIL community, 

Here at UNIL, everything seems quite but under the surface there is a huge amount of activity, all this via our computer screens!  As you can imagine, our priority is to continue our primary mission, teaching.

As a result of the large efforts of the last few weeks, many classes are already online, without interruption since last week. Others are being set up, for those we ask our students for a little patience!  In the background, the central services and faculties make all this possible.

I thank you all for your unwavering commitment to UNIL, for your resilience, and for your responsiveness.

Nouria Hernandez, Rector

Status March 13th, 3 PM

Developments in Switzerland have led the public health authorities to take the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic to a new level.

From this evening, Friday 13 March, until the end of April, UNIL will operate with resources reduced to the bare essentials. Students and staff are required to stay off campus. The buildings will be closed.

Access to the campus will be restricted to staff whose presence is required for essential tasks and to teachers whose presence is required for the preparation and follow-up of distance learning courses.

Teaching :

The Rectorate has decided to continue all teaching by distance learning for a probable duration of several weeks, or even the entire semester. The technical device will be available from Monday on, so as to allow the faculties to reorganize their courses and offer their teaching according to the new modalities. The schedule of implementation will be defined by each faculty. Teachers will receive practical instructions today.

The absolute priority for UNIL in these circumstances is to allow the running of the semester and its validation for all students.

Functioning of the services and institutes :

Only the essential functions identified by the heads of services and deaneries remain active on campus. Access to the buildings is via the campus card.

Employees are obliged to stay at home, unless explicitly requested by the heads of departments and deaneries. Each employee must ensure that his or her hierarchy can contact him or her at all times.

Employees are encouraged to telework as much as possible.

For those who are required to be present on campus, arrangements will be made to enable "social distance" to be respected, as well as the other individual measures recommended by the FOPH.

Working sessions and meetings intended for research activity (colloquia, seminars, etc.) are abolished.

Travel :

All study trips and all professional trips of all collaborators, whether academic or administrative, are suspended.

Infrastructures :

All libraries remain closed.

All cafeterias remain closed.

Events :

Public events are suppressed.

Information channels and follow up of the situation:

These arrangements inevitably lead to many practical questions, which management and faculties are intensively working to answer.  The necessary information will be provided in the coming days.

www.unil.ch/coronavirus is constantly being updated.

We understand that a situation such as the one we are experiencing can cause deep concern and a great deal of uncertainty. The Rectorate is doing everything in its power to pursue UNIL's essential missions and to guarantee students the validation of their study semester. It counts on the support of all of you.

The evolution of the coronavirus epidemic is monitored by the University of Lausanne, in conjunction with the cantonal authorities. Here is useful information for all members of the UNIL community.

Show all  Hide all 
Crisis management COVID-19 at UNIL

A team made up of members of our Rectorate and heads of services is responsible for managing the crisis, maintaining institutional continuity and anticipating the conditions for a return to normalcy on the day when it occurs.

It has been active for several weeks now, and its initial operational objectives were to create the system that now makes it possible to provide courses and distance learning on a large scale thanks to the strengthening of IT and teaching support services.

The absolute priority at this stage remains to guarantee the continuation of teaching in the best possible conditions for students, while providing for the modalities of validation of the current semester and allowing for the minimum functioning of a university whose campus is now closed.

The unit set up by the Rectorate meets daily and is currently working on four major projects: teaching, institutional continuity, logistics and campus, and communication.

At its request, all the Faculties and services have drawn up a continuity plan that identifies the services, skills and resources needed to guarantee essential processes relating, in addition to teaching, to the security of goods and persons, the operation of infrastructures, finance and human resources.

Management will keep you regularly informed of the measures that will be taken to deal with the unprecedented situation our institution is going through via this newsletter and the Coronavirus website.

The evolution of the coronavirus epidemic is monitored by the University of Lausanne, in conjunction with the cantonal authorities. Here is useful information for employees of the UNIL community.

Doctoral students
The Graduate Campus hopes that you are doing well during this period and that you are coping as best you can with this very unusual situation.

Please don't hesitate to contact us if you have any concerns regarding your doctorate. We remain available by phone or online (on all the usual platforms) for advice, to answer questions, or simply to listen and support you during this time.

We are also converting as many workshops  as feasible to an online format, for as long as the campus remains closed. If you have audio and video connection, and some unexpected time available, why not take the opportunity to sign up?

Some of our activities have already taken place online, and the feedback has been really positive. Participants told us how much they appreciated the experience: trainers make sure that the interaction is lively, the learning is dynamic, and everyone comes away with something concrete. Among our upcoming workshops you can sign up for example for applications for opportunities beyond academia , or using online networks . You'll find details of all activities under www.graduatecampus.ch  

Financial Continuity
Supplier invoices

UNIL makes every effort to pay suppliers' invoices on time so as not to exacerbate the financial difficulties that many of them may face. A new procedure with a dematerialization of the validations has been set up and communicated to the Faculties and departments.

Cancellation of trips

UNIL covers the costs related to activities or travel if they are not reimbursed to the participants by third parties (organizer, airline, hotel, etc.) or when the travel insurance does not cover them.

Reimbursement of expenses

UNIL treats all of its financial commitments in order of priority by ensuring first of all the remuneration of its employees and the process of its suppliers' invoices. Other commitments such as expense reports or claims will be dealt with gradually and according to the resources available).

Employees who would have had significant expenses with their own money (amount exceeding CHF 1'000) can request an advance payment by sending a motivated request through the hierarchical channel.

Your contacts in the Finance Department

If you have any questions: faqservicefinancier@unil.ch
For critical emergencies: Nathalie Ferland, Department Head, nathalie.ferland@unil.ch


Infrastructure and access to the campus
UNIL’s buildings are closed. This situation is bound to last. For the time being, the campus is scheduled to remain closed until April 30.
Persons authorized by their superiors to visit the campus inform UNISEP by telephone on 021 692 20 00 of their arrival and departure times, at the latest upon their arrival on campus. The employee must have their Campus Card with them. For the safety of these persons, who will be alone in empty premises, checks are carried out in the buildings.
Staff members are required to stay at home. As long as possible and in agreement with their hierarchy, the activity is carried out by teleworking.
For teaching support services, distance assistance is to be preferred by contacting the following address: elearning@unil.ch.
Only those teachers who imperatively need the face-to-face support organised by the Teaching Support Centre (CSE – Centre de soutien à l’enseignement) to ensure the continuation of their teaching, as well as those staff members who have been explicitly authorised to do so by their hierarchy (Dean, Head of Department or Rectorate, depending on their role), may come to the campus.
Persons who fulfil these conditions and visit the campus must comply with the regulations on hygiene and social distance. They must have their Campus Card with them. For any emergency on campus, they can contact Unisep on 021 692 20 00.
In order to promote compliance with the recommendations regarding the use of public transport, parking spaces are available for all employees who are called to the campus. Simply press the "Information" button on the terminal at the entrance to the car park, and you will be guaranteed access to the car park.
There is no catering service on campus.
The sports fields are closed.


Institutional continuity
As part of its crisis management system, the Rectorate and its support departments are currently prioritizing support measures to ensure the institution's continuity. Of course, it is not yet possible, for the time being, to provide detailed answers to all the questions related to a given individual situation.
The payment of salaries is guaranteed.
The Rectorate regularly informs the Deans and Heads of Department about the system put in place and the progress of the accompanying measures.
The Human Resources Department is at your disposal by e-mail, according to the usual processes: www.unil.ch/srh/contact.
On the IT front, the Helpdesk team has tripled its resources to be able to cope with the increased demand. The IT Helpdesk can be contacted by telephone on 021 692 22 11 or by e-mail at helpdesk@unil.ch.
The website of the IT Department is constantly being updated to provide you with help in using its services, particularly with regard to videoconferencing and teleworking solutions.


Mail and parcel delivery
Since last week, mail has been decreasing significantly. This is why the Buildings and Works Service (Unibat) has decided to change the pace of mail and parcel delivery as of today. For the week from 23 to 27 March, the rounds will take place on Monday, Wednesday and Friday in the morning. Depending on the volume, an update will be made at the weekend. It is likely that the pace will be further reduced in the following days. For those concerned by mail collection, avoid any unnecessary travel and only come on the corresponding days or even less according to the instructions given to you by your hierarchy.


Phishing
Many people have been receiving malicious emails over the past few days, stating that "your incoming emails have been blocked". If you receive such an email, DO NOT CLICK on the links it contains and report it to helpdesk@unil.ch. If in doubt, you can also contact this support team. As a reminder, the IT department never blocks emails. Anti-spam tools and information on how to avoid phishing are available here. The IT Centre also produces detailed articles on this topic at https://wp.unil.ch/cinn/?s=phishing.

SNSF communication to researchers
The Swiss National Science Foundation yesterday published important information for recipients of research grants and subsidies, as well as for those who administer them.

In order to provide the best possible support to scientists, the SNSF is prepared to be flexible with regard to the deadlines and extensions of the grants. However, it is up to the researchers to undertake the actions described by the SNSF on its website .

With regard to the funding of new projects, the SNSF is extending the deadline for the submission of applications from 1 April to 8 April 2020.

Your contact for further information: véronique.longchamp@unil.ch


Teleworking tools and advices
The UNIL network is accessible from your home thanks to the installation of a VPN on your computer. The WebEx tool allows it to carry out videoconferences with two or more people. There are also solutions to collaborate with several people on documents or to send large files. All the resources and documentation necessary for teleworking are available at www.unil.ch/ci/teletravail.

Have you thought about taking a break today? When working at home, it is essential to maintain a routine, alone and with colleagues, but also to set boundaries with your private life. To organise your activity in the best possible way during this particular period, discover the good practice guide, the first part of a series of resources on telework, elaborated by UNIL services. You will find all the useful advice you need to maintain your well-being and motivation.


University Sports is thinking of you
While we are all confined or almost all at home, the opportunities to move around, to play sports with friends have disappeared. And yet, movement is essential for keeping fit both physically and mentally. Suggestions of all kinds are flooding the net: challenges, serious strengt training, chair work, floor work... How do you choose? What to really do?

On the University Sports Lausanne website, experts choose for you the most trustworthy pages, or share with you their own videos that will guide you safely through your sessions. Several times a week they post images, videos or links relating to fitness, relaxation, stretching, nutrition, in short, everything you need to take into account to maintain a good physical condition in this period of confinement.

Go to sports.unil.ch or centresportetsante.ch 


Frequently asked questions
Given the many uncertainties about working conditions during this period, we try to answer the most frequently asked questions below. This list will be enriched as we go along.

 

For more general (Swiss) questions and answers, you can also consult the Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH)  page.

Show all  Hide all 
 How can I organise my activity during this period?
Three situations may arise:

For the vast majority, the activity is carried out by teleworking at home, agreed with your hierarchy.
If the usual activity cannot be carried out by teleworking, you must remain at home, reachable and available.
Some people may be called upon to work at the usual workplace.
 How can I telework? What tools are available?
The computer centre's website is constantly updated : www.unil.ch/ci/teletravail


In addition, the helpdesk is at your disposal at 021 692 22 11 or by email at helpdesk@unil.ch.

 How do I account for my working time during this period?
For teleworkers or people on standby, from now on, the usual work schedule is counted (8 hours and 18 minutes for a 100% commitment rate).

 

In principle, there can be no excess hours during this period, with the exception of any authorized overtime.

 Can my employer ask me to come to work?
The persons whose presence at work is imperative in these circumstances are identified by the Decanats or head of department.

 

Furthermore, all precautions ordered by the “Conseil Fédéral” will be followed. We also appeal to your personal responsibility: respect the instructions in all circumstances.

 I am considered a particularly vulnerable person within the defiition of the FOPH, what about my situation?
The presence of particularly vulnerable persons is not permitted on campus.

 

If your activity allows it, teleworking can be carried out.

 I am ill (coronavirus or any other illness), what should I do?
In order to allow the health system to focus on the current situation, the waiting period for providing a medical certificate has been increased to 14 calendar days. From the 15th day, a medical certificate is required.

 

In any case, we invite you to inform your hierarchy as soon as you start your absence.

 What should I do if I need to look after my children or help my relatives during this period?
If teleworking is feasible in this situation, it is possible to adapt the work rhythm during the day.

 

If you have to take care of your children and/or relatives full-time, you can ask your hierarchy, respectively your Dean or department head, for leave.

 I am pregnant, what about my situation?
Pregnant women do not fall within the perimeter of particularly vulnerable persons established by the FOPH. However, UNIL recommends a precautionary principle with regard to the latter.

 

If you are able to work and your activity allows it, teleworking can be carried out.

 

If you are unable to work, the usual measures apply.

 I have a symptom of Coronavirus, what should I do?
We invite you to strictly follow the recommendations of the FOPH  on this subject and inform your hierarchy.

 I have been in close contact with a person infected with the Coronavirus, what should I do?
We invite you to strictly follow the recommendations of the FOPH  on this subject.

Ensuring distance learning 

During this period, it is necessary to rethink one's teaching and to give maximum priority to asynchronous rather than live teaching whenever possible.

As you will have seen since the beginning of this week, no infrastructure has ever experienced the current traffic associated with quarantining all European countries and moving all their populations to teleworking or telelearning.  In this unprecedented situation, all the tools that we or the other institutions are promoting will run into problems at one time or another. Many of you have already had to deal with the bumpy behavior of WebEx. The problem is the same for most offers of this type (Zoom, Microsoft Teams, etc.). 
 
It is likely that this type of difficulty will occur again in the next few days. When it will be able to do so, our IT Centre will anticipate these disruptions by using this communication channel (email via distribution list). As a user, you can also consult the status page of our supplier, Cisco, at any time by clicking on this link.  
 
For all of you who use WebEx in an educational context, we recommend that you contact the educational engineers at your faculties or the Centre de soutien à l’enseignement (CSE) if your faculty/school does not have educational engineers, who will be able to present you with alternative options to this tool that the CSE has put in place.

The best alternative is the creation of commented presentations (Powerpoint/Keynote) and their recording in mp4.

Powerpoint tutorial (in French)
Keynote tutorial (in French)

It is then possible to put them online on UBICAST with an mp4 export and if the service is interrupted for a few hours, the consequences will be manageable. 

At the UBICAST level, it is quite possible that the processing of a video may take a few hours, our UNIL instance must permanently manage hundreds of videos that are inserted in a waiting list for their processing. It is therefore important that you are aware of this reality and can act accordingly. 

Beyond all these solutions that allow you to carry out your teachings via audio-visual supports, we draw your attention to the importance that our Moodle platform plays in putting your courses online. In addition to the videos that you will produce, it will allow you to structure and share many varied resources and it will also allow you to ensure a communication link with your students.

As you can see, webinars are offered every day, morning and evening, and they are very successful. These help disseminate basic information and relieve the burden on specialist colleagues so that they can be present for more complex requests.

In the morning
•    Webex:  9:15-9:45

Link: https://unil.webex.com/unil-fr/j.php?MTID=mcf42e1f9c252fe70495fbb747cdb6e3f 

•    UBICAST: 10:15-10:45

Link: https://unil.webex.com/unil-fr/j.php?MTID=mf67e82aba2cdbaad4fc4821d788e6e6c  
 
•    Moodle: 11:00-11:45

Link: https://unil.webex.com/unil-fr/j.php?MTID=mca100f384d99e75b807a7f026ba422d6  

In the afternoon
•    Pedagogy and distance learning: 13:00-13:45

Link: https://unil.webex.com/unil-fr/j.php?MTID=m52d5aca4abc2ae5deda9c64ad6857d91 

•    Webex:  15:30-16:00

Link: https://unil.webex.com/unil-fr/j.php?MTID=m6cd4263c792b1c8cd5a5030ecc85abf6 
 
•    UBICAST: 16:15-16:45

Link: https://unil.webex.com/unil-fr/j.php?MTID=m561034f14b49f1136a202c3801e59407  
 
•    Moodle: 17:00-17:30

Link: https://unil.webex.com/unil-fr/j.php?MTID=m70c6631ff83f8ce65b57648af211ea62 

We ask you to send your requests for advice/support to elearning@unil.ch, which is managed like the help desk and sends the tickets back to the pedagogical support teams of the faculties, the Centre de soutien à l’enseignement - CSE or the IT Centre.

Creation of a "Teaching" working group

In order to coordinate all these actions, a "Teaching" working group has been set up since last week, integrating several people from the UNIL crisis unit (Rectorate and support services) as well as the vice-deans of teaching, school principals and the Medical Pedagogy Unit (Unité de pédagogie médicale). This group, led by Vice-Rector Zanetti, has the task of coordinating actions at the University level in order to ensure the continuity of teaching and to deal with any difficulties that may be encountered in each of your faculties.


Study
20CSE_BANDEAUX_coronavirus_services_centraux_a_disposition.png

 

Central services and faculties are always there for you!
 

For an exchange abroad during the spring semester 2021 you may consult first the list of universities still offering places by going to the database of agreements that UNIL has signed with its partners. Consult then the procedure for submitting your application. Due to the closure of UNIL because of to the COVID-19 pandemic, the whole procedure has to be done remotely. Therefore, please contact by e-mail only the mobility coordinator of your faculty, school or institute. Likewise, your complete file, in the form of a single PDF document, must reach SASME by April 15, 2020 at the latest by e-mail to studentmobility@unil.ch.

 

Bursary payments for students are being processed for payment to recipients. If you have any questions, please email faqservicefinancier@unil.ch. 

For critical emergencies, contact the Head of Financial Services, Nathalie Ferland.

 

The Guidance and Careers Office (Service d'orientation et carrières - SOC), the Social Affairs and Student Mobility Office (Service des affaires sociales et de la mobilité étudiante - SASME) and the Admissions Office (Service des immatriculations et inscriptions - SII) are always available to answer your questions by e-mail. In particular, the SOC can be contacted to discuss your current study situation or to anticipate a change of orientation.

 

If you have any specific questions about your studies, you can contact the study counsellors, student affairs or the study secretariats of your respective faculties.

 

On the University Sports Lausanne website, experts choose for you the most trustworthy pages, or share with you their own videos that will guide you safely through your sessions. Several times a week they post images, videos or links relating to fitness, relaxation, stretching, nutrition, in short, everything you need to take into account to maintain a good physical condition in this period of confinement. Go to sports.unil.ch or centresportetsante.ch

 

The UNIL - EPFL chaplaincy remains at the disposal of students by telephone, Webex or e-mail. The activities also continue with some technical adaptations and are announced as they happen on the Facebook page . For example, the meditation takes place via Zoom  every Wednesday at 12.15 pm.

 

If you feel stressed about the current crisis, we also advise you to consult the page Nostress. You will find some useful information, including the link to the psychotherapeutic consultation, also bearing in mind that the course offerings listed there are currently suspended.

 

 

Show all  Hide all 
 Distance Learning: video tutorials
coronavirus_tutoriels_videos_enseignement_a_distance.png

The University of Lausanne provides tutorials to study in a distance learning context.

gerer_son_temps_enseignement_a_distance.jpg garder_lien_enseignement_a_distance.jpgtuto-unil-gerer-son-stress-enseignement-a-distance-.jpg tuto-unil-gerer-son-stress-enseignement-a-distance8.jpg

 Entraide UNIL: mutual aid between students
20CSE_BANDEAUX_coronavirus_entraide_unil.png

The University of Lausanne has decided to publish "Entraide UNIL" which is intended to encourage solidarity between students. It allows people who are experiencing difficulties to anonymously ask for help from other students for course notes or additional resources. 

Each faculty has a dedicated section, where students can have access to the available courses. Each of these sections offers an anonymous forum where students can submit their requests and get answers. All the resources exchanged on this forum will then be wrapped up in a folder, available under the link leading to the forum.

Anonymity is justified by the respect of the privacy in the reasons for not attending the courses or the problems encountered. The conditions of use are presented in each section, thank you to read and respect it.

This section doesn't replace the Moodle assets related to the different courses but is meant to complement them and support all students wishing to use it. Students, coached by the Teaching Support Centre, will be responsible for leading and moderating the exchanges.

Video tutorials for using Entraide UNIL spaces
sinscrire_entraide_unil.jpg utiliser_entraide_unil.jpg

Faculties and schools
Sections for faculties and schools are available for self-registration via these links:

Faculté de théologie et de sciences des religions
Ecole de droit
Ecole des sciences criminelles
IDHEAP
Faculté des lettres
Faculté des sciences sociales et politiques
Faculté des hautes écoles commerciales
Faculté des géosciences et de l’environnement
Ecole de biologie
Ecole de médecine
IUFRS
TOP ^

 Assessment : reviews and validations
After the closure of the campus to its community, the University of Lausanne, its Rectorate and the services concerned have established and implemented various procedures to ensure its main missions remotely. For a week now, the efforts undertaken have made it possible to launch learning solutions through various digital solutions.

 

This being under way, UNIL's management now considers as a priority the evaluation (review and validation) of the lessons learnt within its institution.

 

The Rectorate and the Faculties are working intensively to provide the most adequate response to this very important issue. Further details will be provided in the coming days. In an unprecedented and challenging context for a large part of the UNIL community, an adaptation of the validation modalities and dates will be necessary in many cases.

We will keep you all informed of the evolution of the situation as soon as possible.

 FSA's message
The Federation of Student Associations (FSA) is closely monitoring the current situation. Our services are being maintained and we are open to any questions or concerns.

 

In the event of a difficult financial situation, we ask that you first contact the Service des affaires sociales et de la mobilité étudiante (SASME). In the case of a refusal or insufficient assistance on their part, two FSA services are at your disposal:

 

Our Student Solidarity Fund is maintained until the end of the semester. All you have to do is fill in the form available on our site and send it back to us by e-mail with a copy of the invoice for which you want help. In view of the current situation, the procedure is exceptionally done without an appointment. 

 

Some students are financially impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. An emergency fund has been released for a cash payment of CHF 200.00 to your private bank account. All you need to do is send us a short letter by e-mail explaining your situation, a copy of your employment contract or other proof that your working hours have been affected by the current situation and your bank details.  

 

Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions at fae@unil.ch.