Current Information on Coronavirus COVID-19
Last update on 25.03.2020, 11:00

Information for State Personnel

Following various decisions by the Federal Council and the government of Fribourg (Conseil d'Etat), the Conseil d'Etat issued guidelines on 17 March 2020 on exemptions from the personnel regulations in the event of a coronavirus pandemic. On 23 March 2020, the Conseil d'Etat also adopted a supplement to the guidelines of 17 March 2020, which deals in particular with the consideration of hours during the coronavirus period.

Guidelines: French | German

 

Last update on 20.03.2020, 08:00

Pandemic: SNSF provides flexible solutions for researchers

As the Covid-19 pandemic makes it more difficult to do research, the SNSF is supporting scientists in every way it can. For example, it has moved the submission deadline for project funding proposals to 8 April 2020.

Further information and ongoing updates are posted on the portal for researchers.

 

Last update on 17.03.2020, 17:00

Information for State Personnel

Following the decisions of the Federal Council on 16 March 2020 and the government of Fribourg (Conseil d'Etat) on 17 March 2020, the Conseil d'Etat has issued guidelines on exemptions from the personnel regulations in the event of the coronavirus pandemic.

Guidelines: French | German

 

Last update on 16.03.2020, 15:00

Telework is compulsory, access to the University premises prohibited

The University of Fribourg is introducing telework for all employees of the University. Access to the university buildings is prohibited. The following exceptions are reserved:

specifically designated persons with a view to ensuring the absolutely necessary activities, in accordance with a pandemic or continuity plan submitted to the Administrative Directorate.
those units which consider the presence of staff to be necessary for an activity they consider essential, but for which no pandemic or continuity plan has yet been drawn up. In such cases, sante@unifr.ch should be contacted to draw up such a plan and obtain permission to enter the university buildings.
In addition, the following exceptions are granted:
the presence of lecturers for the purpose of recordings in connection with e-learning in the rooms provided for this purpose;
persons who, for compelling reasons, need access to their offices for a short period of time (in particular to obtain the materials necessary for teaching or teleworking). Prior registration via sante@unifr.ch is mandatory.
Guidelines of the Rectorate on prevention in relation to COVID-19

 

Last update on 13.03.2020, 16:00

Classroom teaching suspended as of Monday, 16 March

In view of current developments in connection with the coronavirus COVID-19, the authorities today decided on far-reaching measures. In particular, from Monday, 16 March 2020 and until the end of April, there will no longer be any attendance events in the area of university teaching.

 

Last update on 10.03.2020, 11:00

Amendment of 10 March 2020. Point F: Quarantine regulations and particularly affected areas.

 

Last update on 09.03.2020, 18:00

In connection with COVID-19, the Rectorate has issued guidelines on lectures, special offers (e.g. libraries), opening of counters, holding of internal university meetings and other events (especially conferences and meetings).

 

Last update on 06.03.2020, 18:00

The government of Fribourg (Conseil d'Etat) has presented a guideline on the criteria applicable to the organisers of events in the canton of Fribourg. In parallel, the canton has taken further measures to align its strategy with that of the Confederation.

Guidelines concerning events in the canton of Fribourg: French | German

 

 
Last update on 04.03.2020, 16:00

After careful analysis of the overall situation, the Rectorate has decided to continue offering the lectures without restriction until further notice. With regard to the organization of the administrative services of the University, the government of Fribourg (Conseil d’Etat) adopted measures to protect the health of staff on 3 March 2020, which the Rectorate specified on 4 March 2020 by means of an e-mail sent to employees and managers. However, no special measures regarding the organization are necessary at this time. Nonetheless, it would ask everyone to observe the recommendations and hygiene instructions of the Federal Office of Public Health, which are also prominently displayed throughout the campus. 

The Rectorate will reassess the situation daily and immediately inform of any new measures that are decided upon. If you have any questions or uncertainties, you can contact the Cantonal permanent hotline (026 306 39 30) or the university via sante@unifr.ch. 

 

 
Last update on 03.03.2020, 17:00

Covid-19: the cantonal government takes measures to protect its personnel

At its meeting on 3 March 2020, the government of Fribourg (Conseil d’Etat) adopted a series of measures to ensure the best possible protection of the health of its staff in the context of the coronavirus 19 epidemic. These decisions complement the Federal Council's measures for the entire population.

The Rectorate is about to discuss the implementation of these measures at the university and will provide information in this regard.

Press release: French | German

 

 
Last update on 02.03.2020, 16:30

Communication of the Directorate for Health and Social Affairs (DSAS/GSD) to the members of the university community: Coronavirus, information from the Canton of Fribourg

In the canton of Fribourg, one person tested positive for the coronavirus Covid-19. It is a 30-year-old man from the Gruyère district. The Cantonal Medical Office (SMC/KAA) is closely monitoring the development of the situation and is in close contact with the federal health authorities. This first case does not require any additional measures.

Due to the new situation, the services of the hotline have been extended for the entire population of Fribourg, who have questions in the field of health regarding the coronavirus: 026 306 39 30 (24/24)

Schools, crèches, homes, institutions...

Currently, the canton has not taken any specific measures for schools, crèches, homes or other institutions. The most important measures are those that are also recommended for seasonal influenza. It is also recommended to remind people of the hygiene measures in the various institutions.

Isolation of persons returning from a trip to an affected area is not envisaged.

However, the situation is changing rapidly and the various partners will be informed should the measures change.

 

Last update on 27.02.2020 12:00

The Rectorate of the University of Fribourg and the local authorities are closely monitoring developments related to the coronavirus (Covid-19). They are in close contact with the responsible health services.

The University follows the recommendations of the Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH). You can find more detailed information on this topic on the office’s website. According to the FOPH, universities do not have to implement any special measures at this time.

Given the situation, the University has decided to provide information on ongoing developments related to the coronavirus. If necessary, it will pass on any information from the competent authorities concerning tertiary educational institutions.

Information for students
Last update on 16.03.2020, 15:00 

Courses
There will be no attendance events.

The course content is offered in other forms to be determined by the lecturers (e.g. by making materials, exercises or similar available on Moodle, video recordings or specific literature references). The Moodle platform is of particular importance in this context and is very resilient. The information provided at https://www3.unifr.ch/it/fr/enseignement-a-distance.html allows for optimal use, and the NTE Centre is available to answer questions (nte@unifr.ch or moodle@unifr.ch).

Access to the university buildings
Access to the university buildings is prohibited.
Some exceptions are reserved (see Information for the staff).

Mensas
The university restaurants and cafeterias are closed.

Libraries
The libraries are closed. Access to documents from electronic sources remains guaranteed.

Sport facilities
The sports programs offered by the University Sports Office are suspended. The fitness rooms remain closed.

Counter openings
The public counters remain closed. As far as possible, counter services will continue to be offered online and by telephone.

Research
The research activities will be continued as far as possible in compliance with the present guidelines (especially regarding teleworking and home office).

Further information and ongoing updates are posted on the portal for researchers.

Remote access
Remote access to university internal applications or file stores is guaranteed. Some services require the installation of the VPN, whose capacities have been increased.

RECTORATE
1
COVID-19 coronavirus
GUIDELINES OF THE RECTORATE
ON PREVENTION IN RELATION TO COVID-19
Status: 16 March 2020, 15h00
In connection with COVID-19, the Rectorate publishes guidelines on courses, research, staff,
special offers (e.g. libraries), opening of counters, holding of internal university meetings and
other events (especially conferences and meetings and further education).
The Rectorate continuously reviews the situation in close cooperation with the competent
authorities and regularly updates these guidelines. The latest version of the guidelines as well
as the latest information can be found on the special website of our university.
These guidelines replace those of 13 March 2020 and shall apply from 17 March 2020 until
revoked.
A. In general
Regarding the initial situation, reference is made to the regulations and communications of the
competent authorities. The health authorities, namely the Federal Office of Public Health FOPH,
communicate continuously updated information, recommendations and directives concerning
coronavirus. The most important links and further information can be found on the special
website of our university.
The federal hygiene and protection regulations must be strictly followed.
B. Courses
There will be no attendance events.
The course content is offered in other forms to be determined by the lecturers (e.g. by making
materials, exercises or similar available on Moodle, video recordings or specific literature
references). The Moodle platform is of particular importance in this context and is very resilient. The
information provided at https://www3.unifr.ch/it/fr/enseignement-a-distance.html allows for optimal
use, and the NTE Centre is available to answer questions (nte@unifr.ch or moodle@unifr.ch). 
2
C. Research
The research activities will be continued as far as possible in compliance with the present guidelines
(especially regarding teleworking and home office).
D. Personnel
The University of Fribourg is introducing telework for all employees of the University. Access to
the university buildings is prohibited. The following exceptions are reserved:
1. specifically designated persons with a view to ensuring the absolutely necessary activities,
in accordance with a pandemic or continuity plan submitted to the Administrative
Directorate.
2. those units which consider the presence of staff to be necessary for an activity they consider
essential, but for which no pandemic or continuity plan has yet been drawn up. In such
cases, sante@unifr.ch should be contacted to draw up such a plan and obtain permission to
enter the university buildings.
3. In addition, the following exceptions are granted:
a) the presence of lecturers for the purpose of recordings in connection with e-learning in
the rooms provided for this purpose;
b) persons who, for compelling reasons, need access to their offices for a short period of
time (in particular to obtain the materials necessary for teaching or teleworking). Prior
registration via sante@unifr.ch is mandatory.
The persons mentioned in points 1 to 3 above must strictly observe the following guidelines and
regulations:
• keep a minimum distance of two metres to all persons;
• stay of only one person in the same room;
• no exchange or transfer of material to other persons;
• maximum restriction of the length of stay;
• no use of public transport;
• wash their hands on arrival at and departure from the university;
• in general: compliance with the FOPH’s hygiene and protection regulations
E. Special offers and opening of premises
All university services are offered online as far as possible. The following applies in particular:
- Access to the university buildings is generally prohibited.
- The libraries are closed. Access to documents from electronic sources remains guaranteed.
- The university restaurants and cafeterias are closed.
- The sports program offered by the University Sports Office are suspended. The fitness rooms
remain closed.
- Concerning online offers the respective websites provide information.
3
F. Counter openings
The public counters remain closed. As far as possible, counter services will continue to be offered
online and by telephone.
G. Meetings
All presence meetings are prohibited. The right to hold meetings of the Rectorate's crisis
committee is reserved.
Wherever possible, telephone conferences or Skype's should be held and decisions made by way of
circulation. In addition, "Moodle" can also be used for the coordination of online faculty council or
online commissions meetings. The deans and the presidents of the commissions can contact
nte@unifr.ch if necessary.
H. Other events (especially meetings, conferences and further education)
No business trips are to be undertaken until further notice. Private travel is strongly
discouraged. If necessary, the FOPH's recommendations for travellers and the travel advice of the
Federal Department of Foreign Affairs FDFA must be observed.
The holding of events is prohibited (in particular meetings, conferences and further training).

Information for teachers
Last update on 16.03.2020, 15:00 

Communication from the Rector to all teachers
In accordance with the decision of the competent authorities, all classroom teaching in the field of university education is suspended from 16 March 2020 to 30 April 2020. Thus, no courses can take place at the University during the mentioned period.

For some time now, the Rectorate has been in close contact with the faculties in order to ensure that courses can nevertheless continue in one way or another (without classroom teaching). To this end, each teacher is asked to analyse how courses can be set up as an alternative to face-to-face courses (e.g. by providing materials, exercises, etc. on Moodle, by using video recordings or by giving specific bibliographical information).

In this context, Moodle is of particular importance and is characterised by its reliability. The information at https://www3.unifr.ch/it/fr/enseignement-a-distance.html will help you to make the best use of it. nte@unifr.ch will be happy to answer any questions you may have.

The Rectorate is aware that it will not be possible to provide an immediate alternative solution for all courses without face-to-face teaching. However, it should be possible to find a solution in one way or another for all courses (possibly deferred in time), which may vary according to the field and/or the teaching method. In this sense, it is the responsibility of each teacher to inform students who take your courses adequately of these modalities.

13.03.2020 / 16.03.2020

Courses
There will be no on-site teaching.

The course content is offered in other forms to be determined by the lecturers (e.g. by making materials, exercises or similar available on Moodle, video recordings or specific literature references). The Moodle platform is of particular importance in this context and is very resilient. The information provided at https://www3.unifr.ch/it/fr/enseignement-a-distance.html allows for optimal use, and the NTE Centre is available to answer questions (nte@unifr.ch or moodle@unifr.ch).

Help for distance learning

A new training module in university didactics will start on 30 March and will (of course) be offered entirely by distance learning.

Teleworking
The University of Fribourg is introducing telework for all its employees. Access to the university buildings is prohibited. Some exceptions are reserved (see Information for the staff).

Below you will find some helpful links for working from home.

General guideline

Remote access through VPN

Ordering software

Research
The research activities will be continued as far as possible in compliance with the present guidelines (especially regarding teleworking and home office).

Further information and ongoing updates are posted on the portal for researchers.

Meetings
All presence meetings are prohibited. The right to hold meetings of the Rectorate's crisis committee is reserved.

Wherever possible, telephone conferences or Skype's should be held and decisions made by way of circulation. In addition, "Moodle" can also be used for the coordination of online faculty council or online commissions meetings. The deans and the presidents of the commissions can contact nte@unifr.ch if necessary.

Other events
No business trips are to be undertaken until further notice. Private travel is strongly discouraged. If necessary, the FOPH's recommendations for travellers and the travel advice of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs FDFA must be observed.

The holding of events is prohibited (in particular meetings, conferences and further training).

Information for researchers
The research activities will be continued as far as possible in compliance with the present guidelines (especially regarding teleworking and home office). As the situation of each researcher is different, they are asked to contact their supervisor.

Researchers with fixed-term contracts must also contact their superiors (the University has a certain degree of flexibility in this respect, but each case must be examined separately).

 

Current information
25.03.2020 - Updates Concerning H2020 Policies
In relation to the COVID-19 outbreak, new Horizon 2020 FAQs have been posted.

19.03.2020 - Important Notices for Researchers
Concerning your running and future SNF projects, please refer to the website of the SNF where detailed information, e.g. about possible prolongations, and possible deadline changes are advertised.

The Research Council meetings take place as planned, just virtually, hence no delays in decisions are to be expected in the current situation.

Extension of deadlines in Horizon 2020 (not for IMI and EIC-SME). Detailed information on the Funding & Tenders Portal.

Innosuisse has not planned any changes in procedures so far. They are, However, open to adjustments on a case-by-case basis.
Innosuisse advises to check with the academic's partner industries if there are problems meeting the deadlines, in which case  the industries should ask Innosuisse for a deadline change.

For more information please consult the Innosuisse page

Information for the University staff
Last update on 16.03.2020, 15:00 

General
The University of Fribourg is introducing telework for all its employees. Access to the university buildings is prohibited. The following exceptions are reserved:

specifically designated persons with a view to ensuring the absolutely necessary activities, in accordance with a pandemic or continuity plan submitted to the Administrative Directorate.
those units which consider the presence of staff to be necessary for an activity they consider essential, but for which no pandemic or continuity plan has yet been drawn up. In such cases, sante@unifr.ch should be contacted to draw up such a plan and obtain permission to enter the university buildings.
In addition, the following exceptions are granted:
the presence of lecturers for the purpose of recordings in connection with e-learning in the rooms provided for this purpose;
persons who, for compelling reasons, need access to their offices for a short period of time (in particular to obtain the materials necessary for teaching or teleworking). Prior registration via sante@unifr.ch is mandatory.
The persons mentioned in points 1 to 3 above must strictly observe the following guidelines and regulations:

keep a minimum distance of two metres to all persons;
stay of only one person in the same room;
no exchange or transfer of material to other persons;
maximum restriction of the length of stay;
no use of public transport;
wash their hands on arrival at and departure from the university;
in general: compliance with the FOPH’s hygiene and protection regulations.
Teleworking
Below you will find some helpful links for working from home.

General guideline

Remote access through VPN

Ordering software

Meetings
All presence sessions are prohibited. The right to hold meetings of the Rectorate's crisis committee is reserved.

Wherever possible, telephone conferences or Skype's should be held and decisions made by way of circulation. In addition, "Moodle" can also be used for the coordination of online faculty council or online commissions meetings. The deans and the presidents of the commissions can contact nte@unifr.ch if necessary.

Other events
No business trips are to be undertaken until further notice. Private travel is strongly discouraged. If necessary, the FOPH's recommendations for travellers and the travel advice of the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs FDFA must be observed.

The holding of events is prohibited (in particular meetings, conferences and further training).

Mensas
The university restaurants and cafeterias are closed

Information for externals
Last update on 16.03.2020, 15:00 

Events / Trainings
The holding of events is prohibited (in particular meetings, conferences and further training).

Access to the University buildings
Access to the university buildings is prohibited.

Counter openings
The public counters remain closed. As far as possible, counter services will continue to be offered online and by telephone.


