Monday, 16 March 2020, 7pm: This afternoon the Federal Council declared the "extraordinary situation" and issued a decree enacting far-reaching measures. As a result, restaurants, cinemas, shops and places of leisure character will be closed throughout Switzerland. Libraries are also explicitly mentioned.

University libraries remain closed until further notice
Unfortunately, the solution for university libraries, which was developed by the University of Basel and communicated yesterday, cannot be implemented in this way due to this new regulation. The university libraries will therefore remain closed for the time being. We are working on a solution and will communicate it as soon as it is available.

Tightened travel regulations
The university management has tightened travel regulations and guest regulations. The new rule is that the University Management instructs its members not to travel for work-related reasons and not to receive guests at the University of Basel.

Sunday, 15 March 2020, 8pm: Based on the news of the last few hours, the university management has decided this evening on further measures this evening. 

Home Office whenever possible - effective immediately
The university management instructs all superiors to implement Home Office whenever possible, and to do so with immediate effect!  The superiors will work out the solutions together with the employees.  In the case of positions that are indispensable for maintaining operations, superiors are requested to discuss this specific situation with employees.  Their health comes first.

Building closed
All university buildings are closed to students.
Students who need urgent access to the buildings should contact their faculty or department.
Course registration deadline extended
Due to the extraordinary situation, the course registration deadline in the spring semester 2020 will be extended by two weeks until 30.3.2020.  We ask all students to cancel their existing bookings that cannot be taken up and to make new bookings quickly so that lecturers can access reliable lists of bookings as quickly as possible.

Access to the ADAM workspace of the course will be available on the following day after the course has been booked. 

General information and guidelines
Friday, 13 March 2020, 8pm: The university management has decided the following measures based on the Federal Council’s guidelines:

Classroom teaching will be discontinued until the end of the spring semester 2020, and courses will be offered exclusively via digital channels from now on.
 
The libraries of the University of Basel will be closed on the weekend of 14-15 March 2020. Together with the cantonal authorities, we will examine as soon as possible whether and in what form our libraries can remain accessible. This also applies to the learning rooms.
 
The catering facilities at the University will remain closed until further notice.
 
All offers of university sports will be discontinued, and the fitness centre will remain closed until further notice.
 
By resolution of 23 March 2020, all third-party events on university premises shall be cancelled until at least 19 April 2020.

Information and guidelines for students
This page informs students about current measures in connection with the Coroan virus. The information is updated on a regular basis, last updated on 27 March 2020, 6 pm.

Tests and examinations
Friday, 27 March 2020: The Vice President for Education and the Deans of Studies of the faculties have been working on solutions to implement the tests and examinations at the end of the semester. Here the most important points:

Every course (lecture, seminar, etc.) that is held this semester should be able to be completed whenever possible.
The University of Basel will be generous in the tests and examinations this semester. Failed the tests and examinations should in principle be able to be repeated. The faculties determine the modalities and will inform the students accordingly.
The form of the the tests and examinations can be adapted to the special situation. Lecturers will inform students in good time how the the tests and examinations will take place.
The faculties are in the process of working out concrete solutions, especially for difficult cases (e.g. internships that cannot take place in the intended way).
Registration for the the tests is done as usual (by course registration). If an additional separate registration for an examination is required, e.g. for exams, this must also be done.
The faculty information (mails/website) already communicated in the Coronakrise remains valid. Please continue to pay attention to the information mails and also regularly check the corresponding websites of your faculty.
Classroom teaching discontinued until the end of the spring semester 2020
Friday, 13 March 2020: The university management has decided the following measures based on the Federal Council's guidelines:

Classroom teaching will be discontinued by the end of the spring semester 2020, and courses will be offered exclusively via digital channels from now on.

Lecturers will inform students how to offer their courses digitally and how performance assessments are carried out.

The aim is to ensure that the planned examinations can be carried out, so that there should be no delay to the studies. The ability to study has the highest priority.

Reservation period extended
Due to the extraordinary situation, the enrolment period in the spring semester 2020 will be extended by two weeks until 30.3.2020. We ask all students to cancel their existing bookings that cannot be taken up and to make new bookings quickly so that lecturers can access reliable lists of bookings as quickly as possible.
Access to the ADAM workspace of the course will be available on the following day after the course has been booked.

Information and guidelines for employees
This page informs employees about current measures in connection with the Coroan virus. The information is updated on an ongoing basis, most recently on 27 March 2020, 6:00 pm.

Home Office whenever possible - effective immediately
The university management instructs all superiors to implement Home Office whenever possible, and to do so with immediate effect!  The superiors will work out the solutions together with the employees.  In the case of positions that are indispensable for maintaining operations, superiors are requested to discuss this specific situation with employees.  Their health comes first.

It is the responsibility of the departments and research units to take the necessary precautions to ensure that the FOPH’s increased hygiene measures can be implemented.

Remote working, teaching and learning
Work from home or on the road, hold web meetings and video conferences, and conduct online courses: You can find all the information you need on the IT Services website (in german). 

Protective measures for employees at particular risk
Employees who are particularly at risk and who are exposed to an increased risk of infection in the workplace should contact their family doctor and carry out a risk assessment. If measures are necessary, the physician's assessment must be communicated to the supervisor so that work planning can be regulated. Professors who belong to the risk group should contact the Dean's Office and inform the President’s Office (via corona@unibas.ch ). Lecturers contact the Dean's Office.

Are considered to be particularly at risk: Persons over 65 years of age and all persons with one of these pre-existing conditions: High blood pressure, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, chronic respiratory diseases, diseases and therapies that weaken the immune system, cancer.


At what point are doctor's certificates required?
Medical certificates are currently required from day 5 at the earliest, until further notice, if the absence is related to the measures recommended by the FOPH.

Will it be accepted if I show up to work later because I want to avoid rush hour?

Cross-border commuters - Information on the current situation on the Upper Rhine / Northwestern Switzerland


I do home office work and at the same time have to take care of the children. How should I do that?


I am an employee on a monthly salary and cannot work at my usual place of work due to quarantine measures or the closure of my units. Home office is not possible for functional or operational reasons.




I have booked a trip for my holidays. This trip was cancelled due to the current situation. Can I cancel my approved holidays and go to work now?


I am an hourly paid employee and, due to the current situation, I am not able to work in my home office or at the university. Will I continue to be remunerated?

I am a course instructor, lecturer and my course/event was cancelled due to the current situation. I cannot transfer it digitally and a postponement is also not possible. Will I be compensated for this?

At what point are doctor's certificates required?
Medical certificates are currently required from day 5 at the earliest, until further notice, if the absence is related to the measures recommended by the FOPH.

Will it be accepted if I show up to work later because I want to avoid rush hour?
Depending on the area of responsibility, working hours can be arranged flexibly in consultation with superiors.

Will it be accepted if I show up to work later because I want to avoid rush hour?
Depending on the area of responsibility, working hours can be arranged flexibly in consultation with superiors.

I do home office work and at the same time have to take care of the children. How should I do that?
The current situation is a great challenge for working parents. The University of Basel is aware that home office with simultaneous childcare is not an ideal working environment and that in many cases it is not possible to create such conditions at present. This exceptional situation requires the highest degree of flexibility on the part of superiors and employees.

Each case must be assessed individually and constructive solutions must be sought together in the spirit of "best efforts".

I am an employee on a monthly salary and cannot work at my usual place of work due to quarantine measures or the closure of my units. Home office is not possible for functional or operational reasons.
1. Will I still be compensated?
The continued payment of wages (within the framework of the regular working hours) is guaranteed. 

2. Will the loss of my work performance be offset against the overtime, flexitime or holiday balance?
No, the loss of work will not be offset against the overtime/flexitime or holiday balance without your consent.

I have booked a trip for my holidays. This trip was cancelled due to the current situation. Can I cancel my approved holidays and go to work now?
Approved days of holiday are not necessarily taken due to a trip cancelled because of the Corona crisis. They can be postponed in consultation with the supervisor. Employees should, however, take care to allow themselves a period of recovery despite the corona crisis. It should also be noted that, for operational reasons, employees will not be able to take all their unused vacation days at the same time after the end of the Corona crisis.

Holiday is always taken in agreement with the superior. If, due to the corona situation or for operational reasons, it is not possible to draw on all the vacation days until the end of the year, the University will be generous in transferring vacation credits from 2020 to the following year in favour of the employees.

I am an hourly paid employee and, due to the current situation, I am not able to work in my home office or at the university. Will I continue to be remunerated?
Yes, you will be compensated for the average amount of hours you have worked over the last three months.

Information and guidelines for researchers
This page informs researchers about current measures in connection with the Corona virus. The information is updated continuously, most recently on 27 March 2020, 3:45 pm.

On Friday March 20, the Federal Council communicated more stringent measures to contain the corona pandemic. The Rectorate is also tightening its regulations for research activities. In this way we want to make an additional contribution - in the current critical phase - to slowing down the spread of SARS-CoV-2.

With immediate effect and until further notice, the University of Basel is switching research to emergency operations. All research activities that require a physical presence at university facilities must be reduced to a minimum, new experiments should not be started. All research activities that can be carried out in the home office will continue as before.

Accordingly, all preparations must be made with immediate effect in order to reduce experimental operations to the indispensable minimum. Ongoing experiments should be completed as quickly as possible. For the continuation of remaining research activities that depend on physical presence at university facilities, all research units (departments) require an approved operating concept from March 25, 2020 noon onwards. The operating concept must ensure that high safety and hygiene standards are maintained.

These measures ensure a viable operating concept for necessary research projects, which require a physical presence on site and which cannot be moved or carried out digitally, and whose termination would lead to considerable losses. 

Clinical research 
Clinical research at the DKF (with contact to patients / study participants) is the responsibility of the university hospitals/clinics; the decision on the continuation of research projects is made by the university hospitals in coordination with the Medical Faculty.

Compliance with tightening safety and hygiene standards
All research activities that require a physical presence at the university require an approved operating concept, which describes and ensures compliance with tight safety and hygiene standards:

Only one person per room (office or laboratory) is allowed at any one time. The same applies to jointly used rooms and workplaces (e.g. measuring equipment, core facilities). Overlaps are to be avoided by using a suitable booking system.

In the case of jointly used rooms, workplaces and equipment, effective cleaning and disinfection between different users must be ensured. Appropriate SOPs are in place. If this is not possible, the operation must be discontinued.

Investigations or face-to-face interviews / meetings with voluntary study participants / test persons for research purposes (with the exception of COVID-19 research) are prohibited and can only be continued with an exceptional approval of the responsible ethics committee.
Meetings and discussions, even those between two persons, are to be conducted exclusively by telephone or virtually; the university provides suitable systems for video conferencing (https://its.unibas.ch/de/anleitungen/applikationen-websites/digitale-meetings-und-unterrichtsformen/).
The use of common rooms, coffee kitchens, etc. is not permitted; the use of lifts should be avoided.

Services, research infrastructures and core facilities
In the operating concept, the organisational units define which indispensable, critical infrastructures, services and core facilities are required for the necessary research activities and are operated in compliance with the above-mentioned safety and hygiene standards. This includes maintenance and servicing work that is absolutely necessary to ensure operation and that cannot be postponed. The research units (departments) specify the technical / administrative staff and security personnel with operationally relevant tasks who must have access for this purpose. Non-essential infrastructures, services and core facilities, as well as facilities that do not allow effective cleaning and disinfection, will be closed.

In particular, staff of IT services that support IT systems with high availability requirements and support the conversion of research and teaching operations to digital systems on site are considered indispensable.

Operational concept 
The head of the research unit (department) submits specific operational concepts and an implementation plan for all sites of the unit to the Faculty (Dean’s office) for approval. The operating concept must explain how compliance with the rules is checked and documented. Exceptions from the "One person per room rule" mentioned above are only possible in well justified exceptional cases and under strict adherence to the rules of distance and hygiene (SOP). The existing regulations on occupational and laboratory safety continue to apply. 

The Faculty leadership informs the applicants and the Vice Rectorate Research about the granted approvals.

Compliance with the safety and hygiene standards is subject to external checks. In case of non-compliance, the approval of the operating concept is revoked, which results in an immediate cessation of activities.

Support for researchers
The measures to contain the COVID 19 pandemic not only severely restrict our daily lives, but also interfere with the work of our researchers. Young scientists are particularly affected. The university management is aware of the problem and will provide flexible solutions for scientists who cannot carry out their research projects within the planned time-frame due to the pandemic. So far, the following regulations apply:

Tenure-track assistant professorships may postpone the evaluation date by six months. If the crisis and the restriction of research activities continue for longer than expected, a postponement of one year will be considered upon request. 

According to the OWP (§23), the employment of assistants (doctorate, PostDoc) can be extended beyond the maximum period of employment upon request. 

Insofar as experimental semester/project work, Bachelor's thesis, Master's thesis must be interrupted or delayed by these measures, the submission deadline can be postponed accordingly upon request to the faculty.

For projects financed by the SNSF there is a possibility of a cost-neutral extension of the project duration. In addition, an application for an additional contribution for the completion of the project can be submitted (Article 36 of the SNSF contribution regulations). Further information on SNSF measures can be found on the SNSF website. 

Horizon 2020 projects: The European Commission considers the Corona crisis as "force majeure" according to article 51 of the Grant Agreement. Researchers who are unable to carry out the research project as planned due to the crisis are required to contact the project officer at the European Commission immediately via the Funding and Tenders Portal. The Commission will decide on a case-by-case basis on how to proceed. Please also inform the Grants Office in this case. Further information, such as the reimbursement of costs, can be found her
Funding for COVID-19 research
The University welcomes the commitment of numerous researchers who, within the framework of their own research, are helping to raise the knowledge about COVID-19 and make their insights publically available. Please take note of additional funding opportunities for COVID-19 research:

IMI Call 21 Development of therapeutics and diagnostics combatting coronavirus infections (Deadline: 31 March 2020)

BRCCH Fast Track Call: Emergency Response to COVID-19 (Deadline: 8 April, 11:00) https://brc.ch/ftc/

Call for Collaborators: Crowdhelix is seeking researchers & innovators worldwide with a strong track record of excellence in fields relevant to the global effort to tackle the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic.
https://network.crowdhelix.com/covid-19

