Coronavirus: digital learning and teaching / building closed
Version: Friday, 27 March 2020

Given the recent developments regarding the spread of COVID-19 the University of Lucerne went digital as of Monday, March 16. University activities will not resume, and the semester will not be interrupted. We will move these activities online, though. These measures will remain effective, as currently expected, until the end of the Easter Break (Monday, April 20 2020).

Hide all
Uni/PH building closed to the public and for the students
As part of the intensified measures by the federal government and the canton, the Uni/PH building at Frohburgstrasse 3 is closed to the public and for the students with immediate effect until probably 19 April. Access to the site of the Zentral- und Hochschulbibliothek Luzern, which is located in the building, is also closed during this period, and so is the cafeteria. All offers of the Hochschulsport Campus Luzern are also cancelled. Public events  in the Uni/PH building during this time are cancelled or postponed. Please refer to the agenda for details.

Online teaching an meetings with "Zoom"
The "Zoom" software is used for lectures and meetings. Information and instructions can be found at www.unilu.ch/zoom.

Exams
We will be relying on digital solutions for the exams. The faculties and the Department of Health Sciences and Medicine will inform students about the examination modalities soon.

Official duties or extended care responsibilities
At its meeting on 26 March, the Extended Executive Board of the University (EUL) decided that students with corona-related official duties (military service, civil defense service or civilian service; medical assistance service) or with corona-related extended care responsibilities should also have the opportunity to complete the spring term 2020. The faculties will ensure that affected students can follow the digital courses and pass exams. Concerned students should contact their faculty’s student advisory services.

Library
The Lucerne Central and University Library (ZHB Luzern) endeavours to maintain the supply of literature for the University as completely as possible. All ZHB locations and libraries will remain closed until further notice.

All members of the university can order scans of articles and chapters from the entire print collection free of charge to their official email address. Before ordering, please check in the library account that your corresponding email address is correct. Due to copyright law, only excerpts from copyrighted works may be copied and sent.

An alternative is to use the postal service (reduced rate per book: CHF 5.-).

Copies of journal articles or chapters from books can be ordered directly from the library catalogue www.iluplus.ch. After logging in to the catalogue, search for the document and click on the correct hit. If the book is available, the desired action can be selected via the buttons "Order" and "Copy order". Otherwise it is recommended to extend the search to www.swissbib.ch. Please note for copy orders: When specifying page numbers, the library system only transmits 30 characters, although it is possible to write longer texts when ordering. If necessary, we recommend sending several copy orders to avoid this problem.

The range of electronic media remains accessible around the clock at www.zhbluzern.ch/recherche/e-medien/.

Hotline and contact for university members
Members of the Corona working group are available to university members (i.e. students, staff and lecturers) for questions specific to the university: safecorona@unilu.ch.

On Tuesday, 17 March, a hotline for university members went into operation. This hotline is in operation on weekdays from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. at the following numbers:

Students: + 41 41 229 50 51
Lecturers: + 41 41 229 50 52
Staff: + 41 41 229 50 53

All information via telephone is given to the best of our knowledge. Liability of any kind is excluded.

Psychological Counselling
The Psychological Advice Centre of the University of Lucerne, the Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts (HSLU) and the University of Teacher Education (PHLU) offers students, lecturers and employees support, advice and assistance in specific stress situations and with problems connected with university study or everyday professional life. The advice is free of charge and confidential. It is now also possible online. More information (Website Psychological Advice Centre, in German)

Project "Helping each other"
In times of corona with all the restrictions, mutual help is an important aspect to master the negative effects.

The project "Helping each other" connects university members who would like to help and can help with people who need support. It is "peer help" or "neighbourhood help" such as learning assistance, support with technical questions or social contacts. Also involved is the project "eine*r für alle und alle für eine*n", initiated by Prof. Dr. Walter Fellmann, which provides help to older people (errands, social contact etc.). Would you like to help or do you need support? You will find all necessary information on the OLAT page of the project (requires login).

Contact for seniors who need help: nachbarschaftshilfe@unilu.ch or 041 229 50 54 (daily 10.30 a.m. to 3 p.m.)

For employees of the university: support offers / requests for assistance

 

Task force
The University of Lucerne is monitoring the situation continuously and is assessing the situation based on information provided by the federal and cantonal authorities responsible. We are also adhering to all instructions given by these authorities. University management has taken the necessary provisions to be able to react effectively, should the situation become more serious. A task force monitors and assesses the situation on a continuous basis. It endeavors to ensure that teaching and research work can be carried out under normal conditions whenever possible.

