Coronavirus
Update 24.03.2020: University of Bern switches to emergency operations in research, new section «Information for researchers» on the topic of research operation and change in the section «Information for employees» on the topic of home office
Update 20.03.2020: Change in the section «Information for students» and «Information for lecturers» on the topic «Exams»
University of Bern switches to emergency operation in research (minimal presence)
On 16 March, the Federal Council declared a national emergency and tightened existing measures. University of Bern is doing everything it can to contain the pandemic. All measures taken by the University of Bern will apply until further notice.

Research operations will be completely shut down, unless otherwise authorised. 
Accordingly, all preparations must be made with immediate effect to reduce experiment operations to the absolute minimum. Currently running experiments should be completed as quickly as possible. Research units (departments) will require written permission from the Rectorate (General Secretariat) from 27 March 2020, 12 noon, for the continuation of indispensible research activities that require a physical presence at university facilities. The form for this can be found here.

More information below under «Information for Researchers».

All employees who are able to do so should work from home. Face-to-face meetings and discussions are to be replaced by video or telephone conferences.
More information below under «Information for Employees».

There is no more on-site teaching. The courses will be replaced by digital solutions.
More information below under «Information for students» and «Information for lecturers».

The reading rooms and workstations in the libraries are closed and are not available. The borrowing service in the libraries is also closed. Access to the electronic media offer will continue to be provided. Further information can be found on here.
All university sports events are cancelled, the gyms (ZSSw, VonRoll) will remain closed. Further information can be found here (in German).
Continuing education courses will be replaced generally by digital solutions. Participants will be informed by the program managers. Further information can be found here (in German), for program managers of the University of Bern
All other public events will not take place.
In general, people with symptoms of influenza (fever, cough, breathing difficulties) must stay at home and contact their doctor by telephone. Please follow the instructions of the Canton of Bern. Further information can be found here (in German).
You can also carry out a personal risk analysis under the «Corona-Check» recommended by the canton.
Information for students
Principles for examinations at the University of Bern in FS 2020
Examinations and assessments which are scheduled for the Spring semester 2020 will take place in this semester. For the Faculty of Medicine, the rules that are communicated by the Dean's Office still apply.
The University of Bern, in collaboration with individual faculties, is in the process of examining alternative solutions to allow the many different forms of examinations and assessments to take place without physical attendance.
Examinations that are not passed in the Spring semester 2020 will be cancelled and students will be entitled to a new attempt.
There is no more on-site teaching. The courses will be replaced by digital solutions.
Further information can be found on the website www.lehre.unibe.ch/coronavirus (in German), on ILIAS or will be communicated to you by the lecturers.

The reading rooms and workstations in the libraries are closed and are not available. The borrowing service in the libraries is also closed. Access to the digital information services will continue to be guaranteed. here.

All university sports events are cancelled, but the gyms (ZSSw, vonRoll) remain closed. Further information can be found here (in German).

Protect yourself and others - hygiene rules (FOPH)

Protect yourself and others - hygiene rules (FOPH) (PDF, 1.7 MB)
Information for lecturers
Principles for examinations at the University of Bern in FS 2020
Examinations and assessments which are scheduled for the Spring semester 2020 will take place in this semester. For the Faculty of Medicine, the rules that are communicated by the Dean's Office still apply.
The University of Bern, in collaboration with individual faculties, is in the process of examining alternative solutions to allow the many different forms of examinations and assessments to take place without physical attendance.
Examinations that are not passed in the Spring semester 2020 will be cancelled and students will be entitled to a new attempt.
There is no more on-site teaching. The courses will be replaced by digital solutions.
Further information can be found on the following website www.lehre.unibe.ch/coronavirus (in German).

The reading rooms and workstations in the libraries are closed and are not available. The borrowing service in the libraries is also closed. Access to the digital information services will continue to be guaranteed. here.

Protect yourself and others - hygiene rules (FOPH)

Protect yourself and others - hygiene rules (FOPH) (PDF, 1.7 MB)
Information for employees
Update 24.03.2020 - Homeoffice
Home office means that, until further notice, all University of Bern employees are only allowed to be present at University where physical presence is absolutely necessary. All others must work from home with immediate effect. Exceptions are

Lecturers who record or stream courses and the corresponding support staff
Employees of service companies (e.g. diagnostics, treatment)
Employees of research systems which must be kept in operation
Persons entrusted with the decommissioning of experiments and with the corresponding documentation
Operations and security personnel for whom presence on site is mandatory
Employees who maintain IT systems which require high and highest availability
Staff of the crisis unit and of emergency organisations
Maintenance and repair workers
Other technical and administrative staff (e.g. postal service) as defined by the organizational units.
These measures have the following consequences for university employees:

Face-to-face meetings and discussions are to be replaced by video or telephone conferences.
Employees with caring responsibilities may be granted paid short leave by the managing directors.

Informations about the home office (IT-services)

This situation, in which we have to implement measures for working from home in such a short time is extraordinary, and requires flexibility, patience, and prudence from all involved. We expect superiors to find pragmatic solutions for their sector and use sound judgement when implementing them. Below you will find answers to the most important questions:

What is meant by working at home?	It means nothing else than that the employees do their work from home. The usual terms of employment and mutual obligations still apply. Nothing changes in terms of personal assignments with working at home.
How is work from home arranged?	Until further notice, working from home is mandated for all functions where this is operationally and functionally possible. Your supervisor will discuss the modalities with you.
How should I record my time?	Time is recorded with the usual time recording system. If this is not available, working times are noted and subsequently recorded in the system.
What time can I record?	In principle, the actual working time is recorded.
What do I do if working from home is not possible for operational or functional reasons and I still cannot work at my workplace?	If the work cannot be done at the workplace, this will be compensated as temporary paid leave.
What do I do if I have children and/or relatives to look after and I have to work from home at the same time?	Priority is given to the care duties. If the care cannot be organised in any other way, paid leave will be granted in consultation with superiors.
I belong to an at-risk group. What do I do if working from home is not possible for operational or functional reasons?	
The new coronavirus is particularly dangerous for people over 65 and for anyone with a previous illness. They are particularly vulnerable to severe or fatal infection. For this reason, in consultation with your superiors, all persons at risk will stay at home with immediate effect. If working from home is not possible, this will be compensated as paid short leave until further notice. We recommend that employees who live in the same household as people from at-risk groups also stay at home.

Info: With one of these pre-existing conditions one is particularly at risk:

 
High blood pressure
Diabetes
Cardiovascular diseases
Chronic respiratory diseases
Diseases and therapies that weaken the immune system
Cancer
Are there reserved or compulsory times when employees must be present while working from home? How is availability regulated?	Supervisors will regulate this in accordance with company requirements. Basically the same times and availabilities apply as at the normal workplace.
What technical infrastructure is used?	Due to this being arranged with such short-notice, a pragmatic approach is advised. Existing business or private infrastructure must be used. If nothing is available or if there are additional requirements, this is to be discussed with your superiors.
It should be clarified with the institutions' IT managers whether, if necessary, hardware can be taken home from the office, or if additional software needs to be acquired.

Further explanations and answers to frequently asked questions can be found on the website of the Canton of Bern (in German).

The personnel law measures communicated on 9 March will be temporarily extended until 30 April 2020. If you have any further questions, please contact info@pers.unibe.ch.

March 9, 2020, information: Spread of the coronavirus - Precautionary legal measures of employment concerning employees of the University of Bern (PDF, 35KB)
Protect yourself and others - hygiene rules (FOPH)

Protect yourself and others - hygiene rules (FOPH) (PDF, 1.7 MB)
Information for researchers
Update 24.03.2020 - Research operation
Until further notice, the University of Bern is completely closing down its research operations, unless otherwise authorised.  Accordingly, all preparations must be made with immediate effect to reduce experiment operations to the absolute minimum. Currently running experiments should be completed as quickly as possible.

Research units (departments) will require written permission from the Rectorate (General Secretariat) from 27 March 2020, 12 noon, for the continuation of indispensible research activities that require a physical presence at university facilities. The form for this can be found here.

Service providers may maintain their activities, subject to the rules of social distancing and hygiene, as long as the quality of the service can be guaranteed and the safety of staff can be ensured at all times. 

For clinical research at the Inselspital, the instructions issued by Inselspital's teaching and research directorate apply. Please note the letter dated 25.03.2020(PDF, 78KB (in German).

Only persons who are absolutely necessary are allowed to stay on University premises.

Exemptions eligible for approval
There are two main criteria which qualify a research project as exceptional and thus allow for its continuation:

I) Significant contribution to overcoming the pandemic
The significant contribution which a research project can make to overcoming the pandemic caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2.

II) Abort is not justifiable
For the approval of the continuation of long-term experiments, especially animal experiments, the various consequences of continuation or discontinuation of the study will be weighed according to a hardship clause.

Approval procedure
Applications for the special exception of a research project must be submitted to the General Secretariat by e-mail using the form provided (approval template / General Secretariat).

Depending on the circumstances, the appropriate panel of experts should be consulted. The applications will then be evaluated by the Vice Rectorate for Research. The Rectorate will then notify applicants of their decision.

