UNIGE INFORMATION
27 March – A number of initiatives have been launched by student associations, staff members, university entities and other groups in response to the current crisis. Among them, UNIGE offers free psychological aid for the students. The Career Center is offering the opportunity to post tutoring jobs for free. These remote tutoring positions are intented exclusively for UNIGE students.

25 March - The exam sessions for the spring 2020 semester will go ahead as scheduled. The new evaluation methods will take account of the exceptional study conditions this semester. Failed exams will not be counted as attempts, and study completion deadlines will be extended where necessary. When requested, students, in particular those who have been called up for public service or who are supporting their community, can be granted leave for the 2020 spring semester.

23 March – All UNIGE student services are still working remotely, except sports and cultural activities. For UNIGE employees, a frequently asked questions section specifies in particular the different ways in which teleworking and family responsabilities can be combined and recalls the possibility for employees to adapt their workload to their personal situation, without any reduction in salary.

PREVENTION
In order to protect oneself and others, following the recommendations in terms of personal hygiene and social behavior is the most effective tool. Each and everyone can become an ambassador for preventive measures in his or her family and social circle, inside and outside the University. > Preventive measures

ACCESS TO UNIGE BUILDINGS
> Read more about access to spaces and facilities

UNIGE POLICIES
The University of Geneva maintains constant contact with the Cantonal Health authorities and applies the recommendations of the cantonal doctor, derived from those of the Federal Office of Public Health (FOPH), the only health authorities to which it refers.

UNIGE is carefully monitoring this quickly-changing situation. The University may adapt its policies at any time in response to new recommendations. Any change will be immediately reflected on this page. Should a major change take place, members of the University community will be informed by e-mail.

As an academic institution, we have a particular responsibility in our management of this crisis and the reactions it generates. In a serene and exemplary fashion, we must broadly disseminate scientifically valid information, ensure that the voices of our researchers are heard, and soothe excessive fears through objective and factual information. Demonstrate serenity and exemplarity.

For any intern question related to the UNIGE policy, please send an e-mail to steps@unige.ch.

Students
WHY IS THE CORONAVIRUS ALSO A CONCERN FOR YOUNG PEOPLE?

DISTANCE LEARNING
Updated 20 March

All UNIGE buildings are closed to students.

All teaching will take place online from Monday 16 March. Each instructor is responsible for informing his/her students of the online teaching method chosen, the schedule of activities and the individual work to be done.
Lesson plans and required assignments are subject to change in the days and weeks to come, depending on how the situation evolves.
Distance learning is already being used. Nevertheless, technical or logistical difficulties will certainly arise during this new phase, for both instructors and students. Thank you in advance for showing the patience and understanding necessary to allow each and every person affected to adapt to this new situation.
Solutions for distance learning

EMERGENCY FINANCIAL AID
Updated 25 March

Starting on 24 March and until further notice, emergency financial aid will be available to UNIGE and HES-SO students, in accordance with the directives on one-off financial aid (in French only) and their addenda (in French only). Students can request this emergency financial aid if, because of the coronavirus measures in place, they are in financial difficulty or no longer have the income to meet their needs.

> Information (in French only)
> To submit an online request (in French only)

The health and welfare team is available for any more information.

 

 

EXAMINATIONS
Updated 25 March

The exam sessions for the spring 2020 semester (May-June and August-September) will go ahead as scheduled to enable as many students as possible to complete their semester. The Rectorate has issued a directive setting out the framework for these exam sessions.

NO CHANGE TO THE SPRING EXAM SCHEDULE
The dates initially announced by the Faculties and interfaculty Centres and Institutes for the end of this semester’s classes and for the May-June and August-September 2020 exam sessions will remain the same.

To provide the best possible learning conditions for students who are taking courses given fully online, the University has acquired a campus license for Zoom so that teachers, employees and students have unlimited access to this platform.

FAILED EXAMS WILL NOT COUNT
If you do not obtain the credits for a given course following the May-June 2020 exam session, the fail will not be counted as an attempt and study completion deadlines will be extended where necessary. This rule will apply to all affected courses. Each Faculty and interfaculty Centre and Institute will determine how this will be implemented.

Students who don't show up for an exam in the May-June 2020 exam session will be automatically excused. Their absence will not count as an attempt. Study completion deadlines will be extended where necessary, and this rule will apply to all affected courses. Each Faculty and interfaculty Centre and Institute will determine how this will be implemented.

The above rules do not apply to competitive exams (including those for first-year medical students and the entrance exams for the FAPSE primary education course). An alternative procedure is currently under discussion. The Faculties and interfaculty Centres and Institutes concerned will shortly inform their students.

EVALUATION METHODS
The new evaluation methods will, of course, comply with the need to guarantee consistent and equal treatment, as announced on 18 March. They will also take account of the exceptional study conditions during this semester.

The evaluation methods for the May-June and August-September 2020 exam sessions are currently being drawn up by the Faculties and interfaculty Centres and Institutes, and students will be informed of these details once they have been approved, by 28 April 2020 at the latest.

For evaluations scheduled at a given date and time, such as oral and multiple-choice exams, the length and type of exam will be decided by the above deadline at the latest. Whether they will be held remotely or on site will depend on how the public health situation develops.
For other evaluations, such as coursework assignments, the special conditions being applied as a result of the current situation will remain in place for the May-June 2020 session, and there will be no on-site evaluations, even if the public health situation improves.
STUDENTS CALLED UP FOR PUBLIC SERVICE OR SUPPORTING THEIR COMMUNITY
Students who have been called up by the army, a hospital or another public institution can be granted leave for the 2020 spring semester. They must submit their request by 30 April 2020. All other students, especially those who are supporting their community, can also submit a request. Students who have been granted leave cannot take exams during the May-June or August-September 2020 exam sessions.

 

 

INCOMING AND OUTGOING EXCHANGE STUDENTS & TRAVELING
Updated 17 March 2020

PRIVATE TRAVEL
UNIGE encourages everyone, students and staff, to avoid unnecessary travelling and to follow the preventive recommendations set forth by the health authorities.

INCOMING AND OUTGOING EXCHANGE STUDENTS
The general advice of the UNIGE to everyone - including incoming and outgoing exchange students - is to limit travel in order to limit the spread of the virus and give priority to the courses in progress.

STUDENTS ABROAD IN – AT UNIGE
Whether the students have decided to stay in Geneva or return home, either by personal decision or because their university or government has decided to repatriate them, they will be able to follow their courses online. Like all other students in their faculty, they will receive instructions from their lecturers concerning online courses. For exams, more detailed information will follow. Their study abroad is not interrupted, unless their university decides otherwise.

STUDENTS ABROAD OUT – AT ANOTHER UNIVERSITY
a)     The semester at the host university has already started and the student is already on site
Subject to the recommendations of the Swiss health and political authorities or to those of the student’s country, UNIGE recommends that the student stays on site and follows the instructions of his or her host university, especially if the courses continue to be taught normally. His or her study abroad continues under the conditions defined by the host university.

b)    The semester hasn't started yet and the student is already on site.
Subject to the recommendations of the Swiss health and political authorities or to those of the student’s country, UNIGE recommends that the student stays on site and follows the instructions of his or her host university, especially if the courses continue to be taught normally. His or her study abroad continues under the conditions defined by the host university.

c)     The semester has not yet started and the student is still in Geneva.
In this case, UNIGE recommends that the student stays in Geneva and contacts his or her faculty as soon as possible to register as a regular student for the 2020 spring semester. No opposition due to this particular situation will be possible in case of the failure of his or her exams. As the semester already started one month ago, the student can also choose to put semester on hold and resume his or her studies next semester in less stressful conditions. In both cases, his or her study abroad is cancelled.

All the students who are in quarantine or unable to return to Switzerland, please contact Daniela.Sauge@unige.ch.

 

 

PSYCHOLOGICAL SUPPORT
Updated 26 March

During this period of confinement, it's important that UNIGE students still have someone they can talk to.

The psychologists in the University’s psychology team are offering students confidential consultations online.

> To make an appointment

Once the student has an appointment, the psychologists will contact him/her during the chosen time slot. These appointments are currently free.

 

STUDENT SERVICES
Updated 23 March 2020

The following student services are still working remotely: admissions office, the health and welfare team, the career center, the teaching and learning support service and the "Observatoire de la vie étudiante". However, most sports and cultural activities had to be canceled for the time being, since the required social distancing cannot be guaranteed, but activities online or at home are available.

The Division of students affairs does everything she can to keep campus life going remotely, while also ensuring that everyone remains healthy and safe.

STUDENTS AT ESPECIALLY HIGH RISK
Updated 15 March 2020

The recommendations of the federal and cantonal health authorities are designed to slow down the epidemic and protect people at especially high risk, such as:

People over the age of 65;
People of any age with any of the following pre-existing conditions:
diabetes;
diseases or treatments that weaken the immune system;
high blood pressure;
cardiovascular diseases;
chronic respiratory diseases;
cancer.
If you show symptoms (fever, cough, shortness of breath or any other influenza symptoms ) stay at home and isolate yourself. If you consider yourself to be at especially high risk or if symptoms get worse, contact your doctor or a health center by telephone.

UNIGE INFORMATION
27 March – A number of initiatives have been launched by student associations, staff members, university entities and other groups in response to the current crisis. Among them, UNIGE offers free psychological aid for the students. The Career Center is offering the opportunity to post tutoring jobs for free. These remote tutoring positions are intented exclusively for UNIGE students.

25 March - The exam sessions for the spring 2020 semester will go ahead as scheduled. The new evaluation methods will take account of the exceptional study conditions this semester. Failed exams will not be counted as attempts, and study completion deadlines will be extended where necessary. When requested, students, in particular those who have been called up for public service or who are supporting their community, can be granted leave for the 2020 spring semester.

EMPLOYEES
Teleworking
Updated 26 March 2020

Anyone whose tasks are not essential – as defined in the University's continuity plan  – and do not require a physical presence in UNIGE buildings will switch to teleworking as of Monday 16 March.
Superiors define priority tasks restrictively so that the number of people present in the buildings is kept to a minimum.
When at home, everyone is expected to telework. Tasks are organized by superiors and between colleagues with an understanding and respect for personal conditions that may affect working at home.
People who are obliged to work remotely but do not have the material means to do so are released from work obligations until they receive instructions from their superiors about how to proceed.
All meetings will be held by teleconference using the tools made available by UNIGE or the tools already used by the groups in question.
Unit managers maintain regular contact with the members of their team and organize regular working sessions via video-conference.
Checks and installations to do:

1. To access the UNIGE network remotely, you will be asked for a security code. To receive it, you have two options:

Register your mobile phone number in your HR Space of the UNIGE Portal in order to receive these security codes necessary for connection to the University network by SMS. To check or add your phone number, log on to: portail.unige.ch > Espace RH > Gestion des données individuelles
You can also choose to use an mobile application such as Google Authenticator to generate a single-use security code allowing you to access the University network.
Note: for security reasons, you must be directly connected to the UNIGE network to perform these checks / installations.

2. For those who have an institutional laptop, check that the FortiClient VPN application is installed correctly, then test it. If necessary, install it then check your connection using your UNIGE login supplemented by the ISIs + code, which you will then receive.

3. For those who will use their private computer, install the VDI Horizon application, then test it. Then check your connection using your UNIGE login supplemented by the ISIs + code, which you will then receive on your smartphone.

4. The mobile application Jabber (available on App Store or Google Play) must be installed on your smartphone to allow you to phone and communicate, using your professional number from home. This application also allows you to organize videoconferences for up to 20 people. Do not forget to test that everything works.

Discover tools for teleworking and distance learning solutions

Detailed information on teleworking at UNIGE

EMPLOYEES
Distance learning
Updated 27 March 2020

As of 16 March 2020 and until the end of the spring semester 2020, the University of Geneva will suspend all its face-to-face teaching activities. From now on, all teaching will take place at a distance.

Teaching staff can contact elearning@unige.ch for distance learning support, including for continuing education. In the coming days, this service will be available 7 days per week.

The choice of which system to use depends on the teaching format. Students are encouraged to review this information to familiarize themselves with the use of each resource.

 

MOODLE
Moodle allows instructors to make course contents and materials available online, enabling students to work remotely. It includes several interactive tools and can be used for any teaching format. Material that has already been made available on Chamilo can also be used.

POWERPOINT TUTORIALS
1. Login to Moodle

2. Create a new course

3. Uploading documents for a course

4. Enable students to access a course

5. Organize your course with sections

6. Communicate with your students using the tool forum

7. Enabling students to submit work through the Activity “Assignment”

8. Grade an assignment submitted in Moodle

9. Using the “Quiz" activity to create a quiz

 

> SEE ALSO OUR VIDEO TUTORIALS
 

MEDIASERVER
Mediaserver is used to record a lecture given in a specifically equipped classroom and make it available online. There is no online interaction. This system is appropriate for ex cathedra classes.

Lectures which have been recorded since the beginning of the academic year will continue to be recorded and will remain available on https://mediaserver.unige.ch/.

From 11 March 2020, lectures which are not on the list above, but are held in classrooms where a recording system is installed are recorded automatically. They are available on https://mediaserver-tmp.unige.ch/ This is a crucial component of our distance learning efforts, as it allows students to follow practically all classes given in big classrooms (50 persons and above) online.

If your class is in one of these rooms and you choose another distance learning option, please contact the person in charge of classrooms within your academic entity to change rooms. As of now, activities other than teaching will be moved to other rooms.

As mentioned at https://mediaserver-tmp.unige.ch/, recordings are available for 7 days after they were made. To be used past this deadline, they must be downloaded to a personal computer.

 

Technical support: mediaserver@unige.ch.

ZOOM
The Zoom videoconferencing platform makes it possible to give or follow live classes online, run webinars and organize online collaborative activities.

The University of Geneva has acquired a "Campus" licence allowing unlimited use of this platform by professors/instructors, students and UNIGE staff.

The Zoom UNIGE platform is accessible via https://unige.zoom.us/, using an ISIS login. When first attempting to connect, click on "Sign-In" to configure your account (see tutorial 0 on the French version of this page). Useful ressources and tutorials in English are also available on Zoom's own support page.

Special tools for live teaching to a large number of students (over 100) such as "large meeting" and "webinar" are available upon request to professors/instructors, please contact zoom@unige.ch

Zoom can also be used by professors/instructors to record their full classes or short video clips, which they can then broadcast to students (including useful tools such as PowerPoint sharing, whiteboard, local or cloud recording, etc.). Do also check resources and advice with regard to how to best store class recordings and related files (see section on "ONEDrive and other resources" below).

The use of the Zoom service implies the collection and processing of personal data by Zoom. Zoom's policy regarding personal data is available here

Technical support: elearning@unige.ch

CAMTASIA
Camtasia allows instructors to autonomously create videos and  screen recordings to share with their students. It complements other available tools for cases where live videoconferencing is impossible or not appropriate. Using this tool autonomously to transmit the contents of a traditional course is more demanding than the other options described above.

Technical support: elearning@unige.ch

COURSERA
The MOOC platform Coursera has decided to provide universities with free access to their course catalogue until Sept. 30, 2020.

Taking into account the fact that following the courses offered by the Coursera platform implies that students must register on the platform and transmit their personal data to Coursera, but also to the institution that offers the MOOC in question, the course therefore has to be offered on an optional basis only and cannot be made compulsory. Students must be able to decide freely whether or not to follow the courses offered.

List of available MOOCs for UNIGE students

ONEDRIVE AND OTHER RESOURCES
As of March 19, UNIGE recommends using OneDrive as some issues with SWITCHdrive have been noted. Please note however that these issues should be resolved soon and that those already using SWITCHdrive can still continue to do so.

Step-by-step tutorials for both ONEDrive and SWITCHdrive are available in French on the french version of the present page. Useful ressources in English are also available on each platform's website (please see OneDrive and SWITCHDrive respectively).

 

HANDBRAKE TUTORIALS
1. How to Compress a video with Handbrake

To go further: Webinars on distance learning pedagogy
Webinars will be provided by a team comprised of staff from the University of Geneva' Teaching and Learning Support Center, the Center for Continuing and Distance Education, and the E-learning Center to help you make the most out of the different distance learning platforms and tools available, from a pedagogical viewpoint. Find out for example, how to run your Zoom course with online survey platforms or how to organize a forum activity with your Zoom course. The webinars' thematic areas will be adapted gradually and depending on the needs of professors/instructors.

Virtual Afterwork on distance teaching: sharing good practices among colleagues!
The current context and the task of transposing all teaching activities online is raising a lot of questions and concerns but also great ideas and innovative practices.

This new online discussion space will give you the opportunity to discuss and network with colleagues about your respective experiences, practices and solutions in terms of distance learning during this particular context.

Purpose: place of exchange of practices between professors/instructors, open discussions, sharing of resources and best practices.

Target audience: any professor/instructor of any faculty/centre

How: Zoom meeting room accessible from the Moodle page of the webinars. Presence of UNIGE e-learning/pedagogical advisers on Tuesdays & Thursdays.

When: Every week day, 5 p.m. - 6 p.m.


Human Resources
FAQ: TELEWORKING, FAMILY RESPONSIBILITIES AND ILLNESS
Updated 27 March

Connecting and teleworking at UNIGE

I am working but must take care of young children.

Advise your superiors. In agreement with them, you will be able to benefit from an adjustment of your workload without any reduction in salary. Special measures such as a reduction in your working hours or a change in your activity may be adopted.

 

I am working, but must take care of a sick family member.

Advise your superiors. In agreement with them, you will be able to benefit from an adjustment of your workload without any reduction in salary. Special measures such as a reduction in your working hours or a change in your activity may be adopted.

 

I have switched to teleworking, but lack the necessary resources (internet connection, specific programs, hardware).

You must remain available to the institution, which may temporarily entrust you with activities that are not provided for in your job description. If telework is impossible, you can be temporarily released from your obligation to work by your hierarchy, without any reduction in salary.

 

My function cannot be carried out by teleworking.

You must remain available to the institution, which may temporarily entrust you with activities that are not provided for in your job description. If telework is not possible, you can be temporarily released from your obligation to work by your hierarchy, without any reduction in salary.

 

I am ill, what steps do I need to take?

In the event of illness, please inform your hierarchy immediately. You must also inform them of your recovery. A medical certificate is not required until further notice.

WORKING CONDITIONS AND PAYMENT OF SALARY
Updated 22 March 2020

Following the cantonal government’s decree of 16 March 2020 activating its continuity plan in response to the COVID-19 epidemic, the UNIGE Rectorate has put in place the following measures for all staff members:

UNIGE has activated its continuity plan, which sets out the University’s priority services.
UNIGE staff members whose activities relate to these priority services must be identified and informed by their superior.
Staff members whose activities do not relate to any of these priority services must not come to work. They will be informed of this by their supervisor.
If possible, these staff members must work from home.
If their work cannot be done from home, staff members must remain available to the employer.
They must provide their superiors with a telephone number and, if they cannot access their work emails from home, an email address where they can be reached.
Supervisors may temporarily require staff members to carry out activities that are not in their job description. They can also requisition staff members for other tasks. Salaries will not be modified as a result.
Staff members’ salaries will not be modified regardless of their situation.
Supervisors can cancel holidays that have already been announced.
Theses measures shall apply without any defined time limit. They may be amended if necessary.
CROSS-BORDER EMPLOYEES
Updated 21 March

Cross-border employees whose professional activity is a priority – as defined in the University's continuity plan  –  and which requires a physical presence on the premises of the University of Geneva must fill in the certificate of derogatory travel and the proof of professional travel which can be found on the site of the French government's Ministry of the Interior.

The proof of professional travel must be completed and signed by the hierarchy.

TRAINEES AND INTERNS
Updated on 18 March 2020

TRAINEES
As part of the measures put in place to slow the spread of COVID-19, public schools in the Canton of Geneva have been officially closed from 16 March to 8 April 2020. However, trainees must still fulfill their educational requirements (by working remotely, etc.). Their school must be able to reach them by phone or email during normal class hours.

For public administration trainees, inter-company training courses have been put on hold. You will receive more details about the measures taken at a later stage.

As supervision cannot be ensured under the current circumstances, trainees are no longer required to turn up for work. UNIGE advises supervisors to provide trainees with training-related tasks that they can complete at home (reading protocols and directives, writing summaries, etc.) and to review the situation regularly with their trainees.

INTERNS
Starting on 17 March 2020, all internship requests that have not yet been processed will be put on hold. Supervisors are responsible for informing the individuals concerned that their internship has been postponed or cancelled. For the time being, no commitment can be made as to when internships will resume. If a contract has already been signed, the supervisor is also responsible for contacting the intern to see whether the internship can be postponed. If the internship cannot be put off, the intern is not required to turn up for work and will be compensated for the period in question. Here again, supervisors can – and are even encouraged to – ask the interns to carry out tasks such as academic reading and bibliography research from home. If the internship is postponed, Human Resources should be informed immediately.


EMPLOYEES AT ESPECIALLY HIGH RISK
Updated 10 march 2020

On 6 March 2020, the Swiss Federal Council issued a series of recommendations for the workplace and the general public. These recommendations are designed mainly to protect people at especially high risk, such as:

People over the age of 65;
People of any age with any of the following pre-existing conditions:
diabetes;
diseases or treatments that weaken the immune system;
high blood pressure;
cardiovascular diseases;
chronic respiratory diseases;
cancer.
If you consider yourself to be at especially high risk, please speak with your supervisor in order to determine whether it is necessary to make certain changes to your work arrangements. Various measures could be put in place:

temporarily changing your working hours so you can avoid using public transport at peak times;
temporarily changing your job requirements so you can avoid contact with the general public;
working from home. Every staff member can set up their computer so that they can connect to the UNIGE network remotely;
making changes to your workspace.
If you are unable to speak with your supervisor, or prefer not to for reasons of confidentiality, you may contact the Human Resources Division directly by writing to secretariat-dirh@unige.ch.

If you show symptoms (fever, cough, shortness of breath or any other influenza symptoms ) stay at home and isolate yourself. If you consider yourself to be at especially high risk or if symptoms get worse, contact your doctor or a health center by telephone.

In this phase of the effort to prevent coronavirus from spreading rapidly, and in order to avoid overloading doctors and the health system, the University of Geneva will not require a medical certificate before the 5th day of absence.


Mobility
Updated 13 March 2020

PROFESSIONAL AND ACADEMIC TRAVEL
Professional and academic travel abroad is forbidden from 13 March 2020 and until further notice. This applies to all personnel and all UNIGE entities.

Any person who has a double affiliation or works in a building managed by two institutions must follow whichever set of rules is the strictest.

PERSONAL TRAVEL
UNIGE encourages all members of our community, students and personnel, to avoid non-essential personal travel.

Before traveling abroad, you are strongly advised to contact the embassies or consulates of your country of destination. A number of airports have reinforced their surveillance measures, airline companies have canceled flights and multiple countries have introduced quarantine for passengers upon arrival. In all situations, it is essential that you respect to the letter the rules of hygiene and behavior established by the federal and cantonal health authorities. Members of the UNIGE community must also be aware of the UNIGE policy regarding risk areas.  


EMPLOYEES
Accounting and Financial Management
 

Updated 20 March 2020

 

The Accounting and Financial Management Division has changed some of its procedures so that it can continue to provide its services and meet processing deadlines wherever possible. Priority will be given to payments to students and assistants (e.g., grant payments, financial support, emergency aid and expense claims).

Here are the following changes:

Expense claims

The rules set out in directive 0083 on paying and reimbursing travel, entertainment, food and other small expenses still apply, and SI-Notes Expanse Claims (SI notes de frais) should continue to be used systematically.
The normal procedure for processing expense claims (i.e., sending hard copies of documents to the accounting team) remains in place but may be affected by delays in the collection, delivery and distribution of internal mail.
Alternatively, you can send us the approved expense claim form by email, along with scans of the relevant receipts. Please include the request number, which you will find in the top right-hand corner of the form, in the subject line. These documents must be sent to the following email addresses:
For the Faculty of Medicine, the Physics and Pharmaceutical Science Departments within the Faculty of Science as well as Continuing Education: fournisseurs-medecine@unige.ch
For the rest of the University: fournisseurs-centrale@unige.ch
Please keep the original receipts, as you may be asked for them at a later date.

Accounting and Financial Managemement Division would ask you not to send expense claims by email and mail at the same time. This will help to prevent payments from being made twice.
 

Invoices processed using SI Engagement & Achat

There is no change to this process.
 

Stamped invoices

The normal procedure for processing invoices (i.e., sending hard copies of documents to the accounting team) remains in place but may be affected by delays in the collection, delivery and distribution of internal mail.
Alternatively, you can send invoices that have been signed by the authorized individuals, as set out in directive 0069 on signing orders, contracts and agreements on behalf of the University, by email to the addresses provided above. Please indicate on the invoice the signatory's full name and the cost center number, and include "Traitement des factures avec étiquettes comptables" in the subject line. It is important to keep the original invoices, as you may be asked for them at a later date.
For invoices exceeding CHF 5,000, your supervisor must be copied in on your email, in keeping with the countersignature requirement.
Accounting and Financial Managemement Division would ask you not to send invoices by email and mail at the same time. This will help to prevent payments from being made twice.

 

Fund creation requests (directive 0053 on creating and managing a university fund or a generic fund)

The normal procedure for creating funds (i.e., sending hard copies of documents to the accounting team) remains in place but may be affected by delays in the collection, delivery and distribution of internal mail.
Alternatively, you can send the completed form, along with the documents listed in the directive, by email to the addresses provided above. Please indicate "Demandes d’ouverture de fonds" in the subject line. For faculties, the dean and administrator must be copied in on your email. For interfaculty centres, the director must be copied in on your email. For divisions and services that report to the Rector's Office, the director or the Secretary general must be copied in on your mail. In all of the above cases, this is to ensure compliance with the rules governing signing authority.
 

Billing requests (directive 0044 on drawing up a bill for an external client)

The normal procedure for submitting a billing request (i.e., sending hard copies of documents to the accounting team) remains in place but may be affected by delays in the collection, delivery and distribution of internal mail.
Alternatively, you can send the billing request by email to the addresses provided above. Please indicate "Demandes de facturation" in the subject line. Given that bills cannot be printed or sent from outside University premises, processing deadlines may have to be pushed back if additional coronavirus measures are put in place. Accounting and Financial Managemement Division apologizes for the inconvenience this may cause.
Accounting and Financial Managemement Division would ask you not to send billing requests by email and mail at the same time. This will help to prevent bills from being issued twice.
 

Payments for temp work (directive 0102 on paying staff members for temporary or flat-rate work)

The deadlines for sending payment forms for temporary work have not changed (see directive 0092 on deadlines for sending temporary staff files).
The normal procedure for processing payments for temp work (i.e., sending hard copies of documents to the payroll team) remains in place but may be affected by delays in the collection, delivery and distribution of internal mail.
Alternatively, you can send the payment forms by email, indicating the signatory's full name and the cost center number. The form must be sent to: busal-adm@unige.ch. Please include "Formule de paiement temporaires" in the subject line. Your supervisor must be copied in on your email, in keeping with the rules governing signing authority.
Accounting and Financial Managemement Division would ask you not to send the forms by email and by mail at the same time. This will help to prevent payments from being made twice.
 

