Ban on gatherings
Basically, there is a ban on gatherings consisting of groups of more than 5 persons. Regardless of the group size, the customary protective measures are applicable (hygiene, 2 metres’ distance).

Teaching
The health of all students, faculty, researchers and staff has top priority for the University of St.Gallen. The University of St.Gallen (HSG) has completely switched its teaching and classroom events to online formats. This is expected to be applicable until the end of term time on 24 May 2020. Thus the lectures at the Bachelor’s, Master’s and Ph.D. Levels will be exclusively held online for the rest of the current Spring Semester 2020. The new web-conferencing tool Zoom is now available to faculty members in all the rooms. In this way, lectures can be transmitted live and recorded. Recorded lectures will remain retrievable for 30 days. Conferences will continue to be available in the HSG’s StudyNet for lectures/seminars with up to 100 participants.

Public programme
The public programme of the University of St.Gallen has been cancelled for the rest of the semester.

Library
The Library Building, including the cafeteria, will be closed with immediate effect probably until 19 April 2020. Books will be sent free of charge for HSG-members inside Switzerland, and articles will be sent by e-mail.
On-campus learning stations will no longer be available to students.

Advice centres
All the HSG’s advice centres can be contacted by telephone and e-mail.

Mensa
The Mensa restaurant will serve as a canteen, be reduced to 50 seats, and only be open to staff.

HSG Shop
The HSG Shop will be closed to the public probably until 19 April 2020. Online orders will still be processed.

13 March 2020. The lectures at Bachelor, Master and Doctoral level will thus be held exclusively in digital form for the remainder of the current spring semester 2020. The public programme of the University of St.Gallen is cancelled for the rest of the semester. In doing so, the HSG is following the latest findings regarding the spread of the coronavirus and the latest guidelines issued by the Federal Council on Friday, 13 March.

Health comes first
The health of all students, lecturers, researchers and employees is a top priority for the University of St.Gallen. Teaching at the HSG will now be completely switched from parallel classroom and online teaching (directive of 12 March 2020) to online teaching. All students are requested to continue their studies exclusively online from Monday, 16 March 2020.

Web conferencing tool "ZOOM"
For lecturers, the web conferencing tool "ZOOM" is now available in all rooms. Lectures can thus be transmitted live and recorded. Recorded events remain available for 30 days. For courses with up to 100 participants the tool "Conferences" in the HSG's "StudyNet" is still available.

Furthermore, no more lectures will be held in the public program of the University of St.Gallen until the end of the current spring semester.

The library building including the cafeteria will be closed with immediate effect until 19 April 2020. Books will be delivered free of charge by post within Switzerland and articles will be sent by e-mail.
There will be no more study places for students on campus.
The HSG Shop will remain closed for customers until 19 April 2020. Online orders are still possible.
All of the HSG's Advisory Services can be reached by phone and online.
The mensa - as a company catering facility - is now only open to staff and capacity has been reduced to 50 places.
